28 Weeks Later is a 2007 British-Spanish post-apocalyptic science fiction horror film, structured as a sequel to the 2002 critical and commercial success, 28 Days Later. 28 Weeks Later was co-written and directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, with Danny Boyle and Alex Garland, respectively director and writer of 28 Days Later, now acting as executive producers. It was released in the United Kingdom and United States on 11 May 2007. The on-location filming took place in London and 3 Mills Studios, although scenes intended to be shot at Wembley Stadium, then undergoing final stages of construction, were filmed instead in Wales, with Cardiff's Millennium Stadium used as a replacement.[2]During the original outbreak of the Rage Virus, Don, his wife Alice, and four other survivors hide in a barricaded cottage on the outskirts of London. They hear a terrified boy pounding at their door, and they let him in. A few minutes later, they find that the infected have followed the boy to them. The Infected kill or turn most of the survivors, and Don, Alice, and the boy are chased upstairs. Don is separated from his wife Alice and the others and abandons them, believing they have all been killed. Don desperately sprints to a nearby motorboat and narrowly escapes.After the infected die of starvation, NATO forces take control of Great Britain. Twenty-eight weeks after the outbreak, an American-led force, under the command of Brigadier General Stone, bring in settlers. Among the new arrivals are Don and Alice's children, Tammy and Andy, who have apparently been out of the country at a boarding school and so missed the outbreak. They are admitted to District One, a safe zone guarded by the U.S. Army, on the Isle of Dogs. Sergeant Doyle, a U.S. Delta Force Sniper and his friend, Chief Flynn, a helicopter pilot, are amongst the military presence charged with guarding the district. Tammy and Andy are reunited with their father, who was found by the U.S. Army and has become the district's caretaker. In their new flat, Tammy and Andy ask their father Don to explain what happened to him and their mother. Untruthfully, he conceals that he abandoned their mother in a panic, telling them instead that he saw her killed.That night, Andy dreams about forgetting his mother's face, so Tammy and Andy sneak past the soldiers and out of the safe zone. They head straight to their former family home, where they begin to collect family photographs and other mementos. To their shock, they find Alice in a semi-conscious state. Doyle sees Tammy and Andy leave the safe zone, and they and their mother are quickly picked up by soldiers and returned to the district. Alice is taken to a quarantine room, where she is tested and found to be an asymptomatic carrier. While she does not show the uncontrollable rage, she is still extremely infectious. Don makes an unauthorized visit to Alice in her isolation cell, begging her to forgive him. However, when they kiss, Don is infected, savagely kills her, and goes on a rampage.General Stone orders the building to be quarantined and District One to be put into Code Red lockdown. Civilians are herded into safe rooms, but despite the precautions, Don breaks into a room containing a large crowd and quickly causes a domino effect of attackers. Scarlet rescues Tammy and Andy from containment as the soldiers in District One are ordered to shoot indiscriminately. Doyle, unable to bring himself to comply with the order, abandons his post and escapes with Scarlet, Tammy, Andy, and several others through the Greenwich Foot Tunnel. General Stone orders District One be firebombed, but large numbers of the infected, including Don, escape the bombardment. Scarlet informs Doyle that the children might hold the key to a cure and must be protected at all costs. Flynn arrives by helicopter to pick up Doyle, but he refuses to take anyone else, as they would be shot down for carrying possibly infected people.Flynn contacts Doyle by radio and tells him to head to Wembley Stadium, but to leave the civilians. Doyle ignores his instructions and escorts the civilians to Wembley. He breaks into an abandoned car to escape nerve gas released to kill the infected, but is burned alive by soldiers as he tries to push start the car. Scarlet escapes an Apache gunship and drives Tammy and Andy into the London Underground, where the trio continues on foot. Don ambushes and kills Scarlet, then bites Andy. Tammy shoots Don before he can kill Andy, who remains symptom-free but an unknowing carrier of the Rage virus. They continue to the stadium and are picked up by a reluctant Flynn, who flies them across the English Channel to France, as previously instructed by Doyle.Twenty-eight days later, a French-accented voice requesting help is heard from the radio in Flynn's abandoned helicopter. A group of the infected are then seen running through a tunnel which, as they emerge into the open, is revealed to be the exit of the Paris Métro Trocadéro station with a view of the nearby Eiffel Tower.We were quite taken aback by the phenomenal success of the first film, particularly in America. We saw an opportunity to make a second film that already had a built in audience. We thought it would be a great idea to try and satisfy that audience again.In 2003, plans for the film were conceived after the international success of 28 Days Later. Danny Boyle, Andrew Macdonald and Alex Garland stated that they felt the time was right to make a sequel.[3]In March 2005, Boyle said in an interview that he would not direct the sequel due to commitments to Sunshine, but he would serve as executive producer. He also revealed that the film would revolve around the aftermath of the first movie.[4] It was also revealed that the film would include the US Army "declaring the war against infection had been won, and that the reconstruction of the country could begin."[5] Boyle hired Juan Carlos Fresnadillo to helm the project after seeing Fresnadillo's 2001 film Intacto.[6] Fresnadillo stated that he was "thrilled working on his first English language film alongside such an exciting international cast and talented production team."[7]Both Fresnadillo and Lopez-Lavigne were involved in writing the script, which revolved around a family and what happened to them in the aftermath of the original film, which the producers "liked a lot".[8]Boyle said in March 2005 that the sequel would feature a new cast, since previous cast members Cillian Murphy, Megan Burns, and Naomie Harris were occupied with their own projects.[4] On 23 August 2006, Jeremy Renner was announced to portray Doyle, one of the principal characters for 28 Weeks Later.[9] On 31 August 2006, Harold Perrineau was announced to portray a US Special Forces pilot in the film.[10]On 1 September 2006, principal photography for 28 Weeks Later began in London[11] with much of the filming taking place at Canary Wharf.[12]On 13 April 2007, 28 days before the release of the film in UK cinemas, a huge biohazard warning sign was projected against the White Cliffs of Dover.[13] The sign contained the international biological hazard symbol, along with the admonition that Britain was "contaminated, keep out!".In July 2006, Fox Atomic Comics and publisher HarperCollins announced the publication, in early 2007, of 28 Days Later: The Aftermath, a graphic novel bridging the gap between 28 Days Later and 28 Weeks Later.[14] Motion comics of two segments of the graphic novel were added to the DVD & Blu-ray release of 28 Weeks Later.[15]Removable chalk-powder graffiti was sprayed in locations around London and Birmingham featuring the web address 'ragevirus.com'. However, the web address was found to be unregistered and was quickly snapped up. The advertising agency who made the mistake agreed to purchase the rights to the domain name for an undisclosed sum.[16]In April 2007, the horror/science-fiction film website Bloody Disgusting promoted 28 Weeks Later by giving readers a chance to win a prop from the film. The props were included in a "District 1 Welcome Pack", which featured an ID card and an edition of the London Evening Standard newspaper with a headline proclaiming the evacuation. The giveaway was only open to residents of North America and entries closed on 9 May 2007.[17]In May 2007, 20th Century Fox posted a free 28 Weeks Later-themed flash game on their international website, foxinternational.com.[18] In the game, the player can play one of the infected in three parts of the city.28 Weeks Later gained generally positive reviews.[19] The film has generated a "fresh" rating of 71% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 187 reviews (132 fresh, 55 rotten).[20]View London called the film an "exciting, action-packed and superbly directed thriller that more than lives up to the original film".[21]The New York Times‍ '​s A. O. Scott wrote that "28 Weeks Later is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques."[22]The film opened in 2,000 cinemas across the United States.[23] It made $9.8 million in its opening weekend, coming in second place at the box office, behind Spider-Man 3. The film has grossed $28.6 million in the US and $35.6 million in other countries, bringing the worldwide total to $64.2 million.[24]1.3 million DVD units have been sold in the United States, gathering a revenue of $24.3 million, as of July 2010.[25] The film has been released as its own DVD and as a double feature with 28 Days Later.28 Weeks Later: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was composed, written and performed by John Murphy. The score was released exclusively to iTunes on 12 June 2007. On 2 June 2009, a limited edition soundtrack was released by La-La Land Records. Only 1500 copies were made.[26]The film's theatrical trailer featured the songs "Want" (Witchman) and "Shrinking Universe" (Muse).Fox Atomic stated in June 2007 that they would consider producing a third film if DVD sales of the film did well.[27] In July 2007, while promoting Sunshine, Boyle said he had a possible story for the next film. "There is an idea for the next one, something which would move the story on. I've got to think about it, whether it's right or not."[28] In October 2010, when Alex Garland was asked what was happening with 28 Months Later, he declared: "I'll answer that completely honestly. When we made 28 Days Later, the rights were frozen between a group of people who are no longer talking to each other. And so, the film is never going to happen unless those people start talking to each other again. There is no script as far as I'm aware."[29] In January 2011, Danny Boyle said, "There is a good idea for it, and once I've got [my stage production of] Frankenstein open, I'll begin to think about it a bit more."[30] On 13 April 2013 Boyle stated: "[I]t’s 40/60 whether [a sequel] happens or not. But we did have an idea of where to set it and what it might be about." When asked to share that idea, Boyle laughed and said, "No, because they’ll end up in The Walking Dead."[31] On 14 January 2015, Garland stated: "We’ve just started talking about it seriously. We’ve got an idea. Danny [Boyle] and [producer] Andrew [Macdonald] and I have been having quite serious conversations about it so it is a possibility. It’s complicated. There’s a whole bunch of reasons why it’s complicated, which are boring so I won’t go into, but there’s a possibility," also adding that "It’s more likely to be 28 Months than 28 Years. 28 Years gives you one more place to go," hinting at the possibility of a fourth film as well.[32]