Alphonse Putharen (born February 10, 1984) is an Indian film director, editor, writer and commercial ad maker. He made his debut in feature films with the Tamil - Malayalam bilingual film Neram.[2]Alphonse Putharen was born in Aluva, Kerala to Daisy Chacko and Puthren Paul. He attended schools including Mount Tabor School Kalamassery, Lena School Lovedale, Lawrence School Lovedale, Rajagiri School Kalamassery, St. Aloysius High School Paravur and higher secondary from Amrita Vidyalayam. He did his Bachelors in Computer Applications (BCA) from M. E. S. College, Aluva and later moved on to Chennai, earning a Diploma in Film making from S. A. E. College.After graduating Alphonse Putharen started making short films and music videos. Arkan and Sutrum Vizhi were his earliest works, completed in college. In 2008, he made the short film Cling Cling. His next work was Neram, a short film which featured Vijay Sethupathi playing a pivotal character. Alphonse later made the music video Flavours, the video of which was shot using stop motion technique. His next short film was The Angel, employing actors Vijay Sethupathi and Bobby Simha in lead roles. Putharen directed the Malayalam music video Dhaaham, with music by Rajesh Murugesan. Putharen directed the music video Nenjodu Cherthu from the album Yuvvh, with music by Saachin-Sreejith. The video starring Nivin Pauly and Nazriya Nazim became "hugely popular".[3] His next short film was Eli - a sexy tale which had Bobby Simha, Nivin Pauly and Rajeev Pillai as part of the cast and was produced by actor/director/singer Vineeth Sreenivasan.Alphonse Putharen made his entry into the field of advertising by directing the commercial for Bangs Fried Chicken, a fast food chain.He made his debut in feature films in 2013 with Neram, the full-length feature film version of his short film. The film is bilingual in Tamil and Malayalam and starred Nivin Pauly, Nazriya Nazim and Bobby Simha in lead roles.[4] He wrote the screenplay and also edited the film.[5] He directed the film Premam in 2015 which starred Nivin Pauly. He also wrote the screenplay, edited and also played a cameo role in the film..The film became a super hit and the heroines of the movie, Sai Pallavi as Malar and Anupama Parameshwaran as Mary, Madonna Sebastian as celine became very popular among the youngsters. It is currently poised to take over the mantle of highest grossing malayalam film ever.[6]