Assetto Corsa (Italian for "racing setup") is a sim racing video game developed by the Italian video game developer Kunos Simulazioni. It is designed with an emphasis on realistic racing experience with support for extensive customisation and modability. The game was first released through the Steam's Early Access program on 8 November 2013,[1] while the final version of the game was released on 19 December 2014.505 Games announced on 3 June 2015 that it would be bringing the game to Xbox One and PlayStation 4 in 2016.[2]Kunos Simulazioni built Assetto Corsa on the experience acquired with the development of netKar Pro and Ferrari Virtual Academy, both titles being notable as some of the best in the simulation genre for their advanced physics model and vehicle dynamics. Kunos Simulazioni acquired practical knowledge working closely to real motorsport as their R&D office is located on Vallelunga Circuit. The game includes renditions of international circuits (realized using laser scanning technology), global car brands, racing prototypes, historic cars, single seaters and some of the most iconic cars ever built.[3]Assetto Corsa technology evolved drastically over time. It started development in 2010 with a driving school project for Automobile Club d'Italia. In 2011, Kunos moved to developing the game in Unity engine, however, due to constraints of external integrability – not being modding friendly, and due to long loading times, they decided to leave it. Eventually, they ended with building a completely in-house, scratch built engine at the end of 2011.[4]The game is coded in multiple programming languages. C++ is used for the simulation part, and Go for multiplayer networking. User interface and launcher core is coded in C#, but the interface itself in HTML to allow users to create interface modifications. Python can be used for developing plugins for retrieving simulation data in real time. APIs used are DirectX 11 for graphics, FMOD for sound and ODE for collision detection and rigid body physics.[4]The Assetto Corsa Technology Preview was a playable benchmark that was released on 22 February 2013. It offered one car, Lotus Elise SC, and one track, Autodromo dell'Umbria in Magione, Italy, as well as two playing modes, free practice and time attack. The preview's main purpose was to allow users to get their first taste of the engine, test it, and report back feedback. The preview required a player to own a netKar Pro license.The game was released through the Steam's Early Access program on 8 November 2013.[1] This service allows developers to release a functional but yet-incomplete product, such as beta versions, to allow users to buy the title and help provide funding, testing and feedback towards the final production. As part of the early access program, starting by the first release, an update with new cars, tracks and features was available around every two weeks, adding new contents and improving the existing ones.[1]The Release Candidate, a feature complete version of the game, was released on 15 October 2014. The final version, following general bugfixing and performance optimizations, was released on 19 December 2014. After the official release the game continues to receive free updates and new features such as new cars and tracks. In May 2015, the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One version of the game was announced. It is set to be released in 2016 and published by 505 Games.[2]Assetto Corsa was extremely well received by the sim-racing community, with general acclaim for the handling of the cars and the meticulous reproduction of models and tracks.[5] Praise was also given to the graphics engine and the general reliability of the code. Another much appreciated feature was the constant development of the game and the attention to the feedback from the users. As of May 2015, the official forum of Assetto Corsa has more than 100,000 members.The game was designed to support extensive modification and creation of additional cars and tracks by users themselves. A special WYSIWYG editor, bundled with the game, enables importing of 3D models (in FBX file format) and allows artists to assign properties and material shaders to objects, with an emphasis on ease of use. The editor exports a single game model file and does not allow opening of, or addition of objects to, an already exported file. The game also supports addition of third party widgets and plugins written in Python, C++ and C#, for uses such as telemetry or interface enhancements.Thanks to these features and to the success of the game, a vast and ever-growing library of mods is available. Kunos Simulazioni has decided to recognize the quality work and dedication of the modders by including some of the mods in the official content of the game. The first example of this was the Shelby Cobra.Assetto Corsa released the Dream Pack 1 DLC on 11 March 2015. This DLC brings a number of new licences to the games, including Nissan, and introduces the Nürburgring Nordschleife in 3 different layouts.[8][9]