Battleme is the stage name and band of Lions singer Matt Drenik, an American musician. It was started as a creative outlet to other projects Drenik was involved in during 2009.[1]Battleme first appeared in the season 2 finale of Sons of Anarchy on FX Network with the song, "Burn This Town." It was a departure from the guitar heavy band Lions that Drenik fronted.[2] These spurts of lo-fi acoustic folk produced numerous songs that began to see Drenik breaking away from the heavy psychedelic outfits he'd previously played in, one of which "No Time For Blood" was featured on NPR's KUT "Song of the Day." [3]In the summer of 2010, Drenik relocated to Portland, Oregon to solely focus on the project. He built a studio in the basement of his house and began recording the demos of what would become Battleme’s self-titled debut full length. After tracking over 40 songs, the record was narrowed down to 10 and sent out. Thomas Turner of Ghostland Observatory responded and signed Drenik to his Trashy Moped Recordings label. The two began working on the final version of the record in the fall of 2010 with Turner producing. In conjunction to working on the full length record, Drenik released a quieter solo EP, Big Score, on his own imprint Get Loud. The record consisted of six previously recorded concrete folk numbers.[4]Several Battleme songs appeared in Sons of Anarchy season 3, including a cover version of Neil Young’s “Hey Hey, My My.”On March 8, 2012,[citation needed] the video for Battleme single "Touch" made its premiere on MTV Buzzworthy. The band also appeared at Music Fest NW (Portland, OR), Capitol Hill Block Party (Seattle, WA), and Lobster Fest (LA, CA) in 2012.Battleme's collaboration with Bob Thiele (Sons of Anarchy, Forest Rangers) on songs "Time" and "Lights" is slated for release on November 19, 2012 on the Sons of Anarchy Volume II soundtrack via Columbia Records.In the spring of 2013, Drenik signed to El Camino, an LA imprint headed by former EMI Publishing VP Matt Messer. He went into the studio in April to work on his 2nd full length album with producer Doug Boehme (Girls, Guided By Voices, Tokyo Police Club).In the summer of 2014, Battleme opened for Veruca Salt for 10 shows on the Midwest and East Coast legs of the tour.[5]