Big Brother 2002, also known as Big Brother 2, was the second series of the Australian reality television series Big Brother Australia. The season started on 8 April 2002, and ended on 1 July 2002, lasting 85 days. Big Brother 2002 was similar to the first series Big Brother 2001, and was the only one to use the same house from a previous series, albeit with some small modifications. Simultaneous with the main house was a house of six potential Intruders. A number of television specials allowed viewers to get to know the intruders and viewers were able to vote which three eventually went into the house.A close relationship formed between Nathan Martin and Jessica Hardy (Marty and Jess) who later got married after leaving the show. Their wedding plans and the ceremony were showcased in television special Marty & Jess: An Outback Wedding. The couple separated in late 2005. The Australian rock band Killing Heidi entered the house for a special surprise birthday party for Jess. During an Eviction, a 25-year-old male ran naked onto the stage and was subsequently fined $100 in court. The reserved Peter Corbett won the $250,000 first prize, with Marty coming second.Turkan Aksoy is a Turkish-born Nurse from New South Wales. She lasted 7 weeks in the Bigbrother house and wanted to leave the house prior to eviction. She moved on to write for the Sunday Telegraph for their Body and Soul Magazine and now is a Community Development Officer in a local Council.She has written a children's book on the subject of the attachment phase called "I Feel Loved, I Feel Happy" which has been translated into Arabic, Chinese/Persian, English and Vietnamese.Aaron Benton was a former member of the Royal Australian Navy. He was the third evictee, leaving on Day 28. In May 2009, he scored a runner up finish in the Main Event of the FTOPS XII Online Poker Series on Full Tilt Poker for $262,500 USD. At the time it was the highest single cash/win in an online poker tournament by an Australian. Later that same year in December 2009, he won the APPT Sydney Main Event Poker Tournament at Star City Casino for a further $590,000 AUD. In 2010, he placed 4th in the ANZPT Player Of The Year. In 2011, he placed 10th in the ANZPT Player Of The Year. He is a global Poker Ambassador for The Star Casino in Sydney, a sponsored poker player on the online card room Hero Poker and is a host on Aussie Poker Radio.[1]Alex Christie is from Melbourne, Victoria.Shannon Cleary was a personal trainer from Sydney and the fifth to be evicted from the house. She revealed that she had once suffered from anorexia nervosa.The winner of Big Brother 2002, Peter Corbett, lost both his parents at a young age. He has been an active charity supporter, assisting Banardos Australia and becoming an ambassador for Daffodil Day.Nicole was a South Australian who was one of the three intruders voted into house by viewers. She was evicted several days later.Jess Hardy became well-known during her time in the house for her relationship with Marty, a relationship which led to their marriage outside of the house after the season ended. They are divorced in 2006. She was a contestant in channel 7's The Mole in 2001, and was eliminated along with five other contestants in a twist in the very first episode. Her brother was killed in the 2002 Bali bombing. From May - December 2007 she was working on Lismore radio station ZZZFM. Jessica worked as an Announcer for Starfm in Coffs Harbour for 2008. She currently works as a Breakfast Announcer at Radio 97 on the Northern Rivers / Coolangatta.Damian Hoo was a teaching student before entering the House. He left the House in the season's first Eviction on Day 14. Hoo plays rugby for the Colleagues Convicts and has launched a solo music career, releasing his debut album, The spectrum. Hoo now lives in Sydney, Australia, and teaches at a school in the eastern suburbs and is currently fighting with the ATO regarding tax evasion. Hoo faces a 2 year sentence if found guilty. He has been quoted as saying 'I wouldn't mind it so much, if I was found guilty, as I've often fantasized about what it would be like to pick up the soap in a prison shower.'Sahra Kearney was evictee #12. She worked as an actress on Australian television programs "Home & Away" and "Heartbreak High". Sahra also appeared on several commercials and continues to work as an actress in Australia and the UK.Nathan "Marty" Martin was evictee # 11 Big Brother 2002. He was the runner up as the series and got married to fellow housemate Jess, after the show ended, however later divorced.Katrina Miani is a legal secretary from Melbourne.Nathan Morris grew up in Kalgoorlie. He moved to Perth permanently after his stint on Big Brother to become a presenter on Perth radio station Nova 93.7, a role he still holds as of 2013. Morris was guest host on Big Brother - Big Mouth in 2008.Mirabai Peart is a musician.Keiran Tanner, from New South Wales, entered the House as an Intruder, after being voted into the house by viewers, and stayed after a housemate vote on which of the Intruders to keep.Brodie Young, from Melbourne, entered the house as an intruder. He was voted in by viewers and retained after a housemate vote on which intruders to keep. He was the host of Quizmania, a night game show formerly on the Nine Network (a rival to Hotdogs' The Up-Late Game Show, a housemate from Big Brother in 2005). He is also the ground announcer at Olympic Park Stadium, calling Melbourne Storm games[citation needed] and conducts infomercials on Channel 7's morning show.The six potential Intruders of Big Brother 2002 entered the Intruder House (hidden away in the Gold Coast Hinterland) at the same time the original housemates entered the Big Brother compound on Day 0. Handycam footage of the Intruder House aired during the Intruders special on Day 28, revealing that the group of six (Hayley, Nicki Cahill, Nicole, Will, Brodie and Keiran) had not been allowed any access to the outside world and for the past 28 days, their experiences mirrored the housemates' with a diary room available to them at all times, the six having to share a bathroom, the participation in mini-tasks set by Big Brother, and themed parties thrown for them. The edited down footage of the past month showed that the Intruders were feeling the effects of being in extended isolation, with many of them becoming paranoid and speculating that they were actually being tricked and they really were never going to get the chance to enter the Big Brother house. The overnight voting after the six Intruders made their plea to the public to vote them into the main house, revealed that Nicki, Hayley and Will were going home and that Keiran would enter first, followed by Nicole and then Brodie on Day 29.The first housemate in each box was nominated for two points, and the second housemate was nominated for one point.^1 Brodie, Kieran, and Nicole, entered the House as Intruders, and the other housemates had to vote one of them out. ^2 Brodie and Kieran were immune to the week's nominations.