Cecil College is a community college in North East, Maryland, named for its location in Cecil County.Cecil Community College was founded in 1968 to meet the educational needs of Cecil County residents. On June 13, 2007, the Maryland Higher Education Commission voted to accept its petition to change its name to Cecil College.Cecil College is governed by a board of trustees appointed by the governor of the state of Maryland. The president reports directly to the board of trustees.Cecil College’s locations include the North East main campus, Elkton Station and the Family Education Center in Elkton, and the learning in a doctors office in Perryville off of Route 40.The North East campus is the location of the Mid-Atlantic Transportation and Logistics Institute, the Milburn Stone Theatre and Gallery, the Cecil County Veterans Memorial Library, the Physical Education Complex, the Arts and Sciences Building, and the Technology Center.Elkton Station opened in January 2005. The facility also serves as the home for continuing education, community education and youth programs, as well as customized workforce training courses. The Family Education Center offers programs such as Head Start and Early Head Start, and houses the Judy Center.Cecil has conducted non-credit classes at the Perryville Outlet Center since 2008. Topics include martial arts, babysitter training and finance.Cecil College is a member of the Maryland Association of Community Colleges,[1] accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, and authorized by the Maryland Higher Education Commission to grant the associate degree.[2] Cecil College is also accredited by the Maryland State Board of Nursing and the National League for Nursing Accrediting Commission. The college also conducts Transportation and Logistics programs through its Mid-Atlantic Transportation and Logistics Institute.[3]The college offers more than 100 associate degree and certificate programs. Some degree programs are headquartered at Elkton Station. Cecil College has formalized articulation agreements with public four-year institutions throughout Maryland and utilizes an open admission policy.Cecil College is a member of the Maryland Junior College Athletic Conference in all sports and competes in the National Junior College Athletic Association. The college fields men’s teams in baseball, basketball and soccer, and women’s teams in basketball, softball, soccer, tennis and volleyball. In Spring 2013 the baseball team was a win away from qualifying for the NJCAA World Series in Enid, Oklahoma. In 2006, the Seahawk Men's Basketball Team won the NJCAA National Championship, becoming the first team in NJCAA history to be nationally ranked #1 in the preseason, finish the season ranked #1, and go on to win the National Championship. Former Seahawk Eddie Miller, who is also the school's all-time leading scorer, was named the 2006 National Player of the Year. Coach Bill Lewit was named 2006 Coach of the Year.