Cincinnati Caledonian Pipes and Drums, one of the oldest pipe bands in the United States, is dedicated to promoting and preserving the Scottish Celtic cultural and musical arts through piping, drumming and Highland dancing. They have been honored to play for The Black Watch, share a stage with Rod Stewart, play the half time show for the Cincinnati Bengals, and perform at the Cincinnati Celtic Festival since it started in the early 1990s. The band has led the Cincinnati St. Patrick’s Day parade since at least 1969. Their big event each year is the annual Tartan Day Ceilidh held in conjunction with National Tartan Day held in early April.The Early Years The Cincinnati Caledonian Pipes and Drums was first formed around 1912 by a Scottish immigrant, William Lorne Nimmo, whose family first moved to Canada then to Cincinnati. William Nimmo was a Lieutenant in the police force. After moving to Cincinnati, Mr. Nimmo set about putting together a pipe band, and as he states in his autobiography “I organized a pipe band, assisted by some good businessmen of the Caledonian Society.” When the band was first started, it had some 20 members. During World War I the band gained much notoriety by leading weekly parades supporting the war effort and Liberty Bond drives, visiting the training camps, hospitals, Red Cross and other affairs in the interest of building up morale. It was after World War I when a number of veterans from the Seaforth Highlanders regiment, now known as The Highlanders (Seaforth, Gordons and Camerons), joined the band that it adopted the Mackenzie tartan and the regimental hat badge (a stag's head with the motto Cuidich n'Righ – Support the King) both of which are still proudly worn today. In the 1930s, some of the members spent considerable time traveling the States in a converted Chevy school bus they referred to as "the Wee Hoose" complete with a grand set of great highland antlers attached to the front grill.Mid-Century In the 1950s, the band was given new life under the direction of pipe major Alvin Spivak, and once again support from the Caledonian Society of Cincinnati, which provided money for new uniforms and two sets of bagpipes. Included in the roster was piper Lomond Nimmo, son of the founder, William. In 1965, the band made 37 appearances including the Ohio State Fair. In 1968, the band led the St. Patrick's Day Parade. Since then, the band has continuously played various events including an annual Tartan Ball, held in the 1970s and 80s, the St. Andrew's Day Celebration held by the Caledonian Society of Cincinnati, and other annual and one time events. At that time, the band changed its name to the Caledonian Pipes, Drums and Dancers, as the band included a thriving dance section which was incorporated into all its performances and marched behind the drummers. The 1980s saw the band begin attending competitions at Highland Games. In the mid-1990s, the band began re-building a competition unit. Very soon after, they fielded 3 units including a grade 5, grade 4, and grade 5 youth band. After leadership changes in 1999-2000, they fielded a grade 4 competition band, finishing 4th at Glengarry Highland Games (the North American Championships) in Ontario.21st Century In 2001, after some members split to form Mad Anthony Wayne Pipe Band, only a grade 5 band returned. By 2005, the grade 5 band finished 2nd at Stone Mountain Highland Games resulting in a move up to grade 4 the following year. In 2006, the Mad Anthony Wayne Pipe Band merged and incited a great influx of local and non-local players which created a grade 3 competition band with CCP&D. They competed at such games as Alma, Fergus, Ligonier, and Stone Mountain. The grade 3 band disbanded after the 2007 competition season. Achievements in 2008 included 1st place grade 5 at Kentucky Scottish Weekend, 1st place grade 5 at Glasgow, KY Highland Games, and 1st place grade 5 at Ohio Scottish Games (Ohio Valley Branch Championship). The band celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2012. A Centennial Celebration was held on Sept. 2nd with many band members, past and present, in attendance. The grade 5 competition band placed 1st at the Ohio Scottish Games and 3rd at Alma (MI) Highland Games. In 2013, the band was upgraded to grade 4 but only competed once at Smoky Mtn Games in Marysville, TN. A grade 5 band also competed at that event. In 2014 the pipe band only fielded a grade 5 band and competed at Smoky Mtn Games, Ohio Scottish Games, and Central Kentucky Games. In 2015, the band plans on expanding the competition circuit for grade 5. Since 2012, the band has been performing during special event weekends at the Ohio Renaissance Festival.Ceilidh To help raise funds as a non-profit cultural arts organization, the pipe band holds an annual event called a ceilidh, which is a Gaelic word meaning "party" or "music gathering". The event grew out of a more formal Tartan Ball that was held each spring. In 1989, the band rented a venue in the Hartwell neighborhood of Cincinnati for the first annual ceilidh. Since then the event has changed locations several times as the audience has grown. The band often hosts a regional or international act as a headliner. Past artists have included Brian MacNeil from the Battlefield Band, Celtic Offspring, The Tartan Terrors, and Marys Lane. The event is held indoors with several sections making up the event including a Scotch Tasting, a Scottish themed Tea Room, and food booths with traditional Scottish cuisine. A highlight in recent years has been a Haggis Eating Contest. Winners get their name on a sash and a free ticket for next year. In 2015, the ceilidh will move to The Center, a venue in downtown Cincinnati.Past P/M's include Russ Spaulding (former P/M for City of Chattanooga Pipe Band), and Peter Kent (recently with City of Washington Pipe Band, a grade one pipe band).