The tenth season of the American fictional drama television series ER first aired on September 25, 2003 and concluded on May 13, 2004. The tenth season consists of 22 episodes.New characters arrive in the form of medical student Neela Rasgotra, hapless Resident Archie Morris, and Nurse Samantha Taggart filling the void left by Abby who returns to medical school. The aftermath of Kovac and Carter’s mission in Africa becomes a key story throughout the season, a Thanksgiving tragedy sees the end of Romano, Lewis copes with unexpected pregnancy, Gallant is deployed to Iraq and Chen and Weaver both deal with personal losses.Doctors and medical students:Nurses:Staff and paramedics:Special appearances:The ER is undergoing extensive renovations. Carter returns from Africa to find a hostile Abby. New medical student, Neela Rasgotra, causes a stir when she unexpectedly helps a patient - and angers Chen as Pratt flirts with her. Romano sports a new look after removal of his arm. When Neela informs the ER of Luka's supposed death in Africa, Carter returns to Africa in the hope of finding Luka's body.Abby's frustrating day gets worse when she gets a special "Dear John" letter from Carter in the Congo while her fellow nurses threaten a walkout and her opinions are ignored. Romano's mood gets nastier when he is fitted with an antiquated hook for his missing arm. Pratt uneasily meets Chen's old-fashioned parents for dinner. In addition, three new second-year residents join the staff - including Archie Morris and the self-assured Dr. "Coop".Kovač's day back in the ER is a busy one. Lewis fears for a distraught architect, Ben Hollander (Bob Newhart), whose degenerating eyesight makes him despondent. A spirited new nurse, Samantha "Sam" Taggart, replaces Abby - who returns to medical school but also continues to work as a nurse to afford the tuition. Morris is left greatly overwhelmed by the chaos and grisly conditions of life in the ER.A Thanksgiving tragedy high above the ER has the County staff racing to aid the survivors and Lewis fearing the worst about one of the possible casualties. Elsewhere, Romano threatens to file a serious complaint against the brash Pratt and catches Morris with cannabis. Also, Kovač enjoys Thanksgiving dinner with Sam and her son Alex.Weaver rushes to the aid of her female partner Sandy Lopez when the firefighter is severely injured on the job and must fight for her life. Lewis suffers labor pains and is confined to bed rest, while tension remains between Gallant and Neela as an investigation begins into the suspicious death. Later, Gallant reveals to Neela that he will be deployed to Iraq. Sam is surprised by the arrival of Alex's dad. Corday discovers that she is the new Head of Surgery.