ERT World (formerly ERT SAT) was an internationally broadcast Greek-language channel run by Greece's former national broadcaster Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation (ERT). Programming included a mix of news, discussion-based programmes, drama, documentaries, entertainment shows as well as sports coverage including live games from Greece's top soccer league- Super League Greece. As of June 12, 2013, ERT World was disestablished under an order of the Greek Government, as part of austerity measures, along with all of ERT's former TV and Radio channels; ERT1, ERT2, ERT3, ERT World, Kosmos Radio and others ceased to operate from the morning of Wednesday 12 June.ERT World has created a special program, consisting of the best programmes from the three national Greek channels, ERT1, ERT2 and ERT3 and its own specialized programs targeted at the global promotion of Greece. It also used to air programs from CyBC (the Cypriot public broadcaster) but discontinued the practice.Programming is split into two zones- Weekday and Weekend. On weekdays one can find standard news and information as well as some entertainment shows. While on the weekend the focus is mainly on entertainment and sports.In early 2006, the Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation revealed that ERT SAT would be undergoing a major overhaul to allow it to better meet the needs of Greeks abroad. Among the changes are new programmes designed specifically for the Omogeneia (Greek expatriates) and a localized schedule to serve each of the newly designated program 'zones'- North America, Europe/Africa & Asia/Australia. The new 'program zones' were to be launched in the fall of 2006 but as of March 2013 have yet to materialize as the channel still air programs according to local time in Greece (UTC+2).In August 2010, ERT announced that they had initiated a public bidding process to award the worldwide distribution rights for ERT World. The current rights holder, Comart Telecom declined to renew their agreement with ERT and on August 30, 2010 it was announced that PCCW Global would be awarded the distribution rights temporarily for 1 year until the bidding process was completed and a decision made on the rights holder.As of March 2013, the distribution rights are now held by KBI Implus Hellas.ERT World features coverage of live sporting events that are a part of the lineup specifically for the Diaspora Greeks who want to follow the sporting leagues from their homeland. Sporting events include:Original ERT Sat logo, 1996 - 2000ERT Sat logo used from 2000 - 2006ERT Sat logo (2006)ERT World logo used from 2006–2013. This logo changed the new look from 2008