Extreme Justice was a monthly Justice League spin off title in the DC Comics universe. It replaced the cancelled Justice League International (formerly Justice League Europe) and ran for nineteen issues from 1994 to 1996.[1]Several heroes split from the main Justice League over dissatisfaction with the League's association with the United Nations. These characters form their own Justice League, based out in Mount Thunder, Colorado. The team is led by Captain Atom and consists of Maxima, Blue Beetle (Ted Kord), Booster Gold, and Amazing-Man (Will Everett III). They were later joined by Firestorm (Ronald Raymond), Plastique, and the Wonder Twins (Zan and Jayna). Carol Ferris became the administrator of their Mount Thunder facility. The characters never referred to the team as "Extreme Justice" in the series; however, they were called that in an issue of Justice League America.[1]Although at one point there were three Justice League groups in action (Extreme Justice itself plus Justice League America and Justice League Task Force), there was very little unity between the teams and a strong sense of rivalry among the respective leaders, Wonder Woman, Captain Atom, and the Martian Manhunter, regarding which team would succeed in the pursuit of justice.Notably, Captain Atom led the team in an invasion of Bialya yet again.[2] This was when the current ruler, Queen Beatriz, was rebuilding the Extremists. Most of Extreme Justice, having lost friends to the group before, did not want to tolerate the existence of these entities. They invaded the country and destroyed what they thought were robots, but were in fact cyborgs, made out of the Queen's own subjects. They had allegedly volunteered, a whole army's worth, but Captain Atom destroys all the facilities and threatens worse if Beatriz continues. This particular incident was the last straw and all versions of the Justice League were disbanded.In the summer of 1996, all three Justice League series were cancelled and soon replaced by an ongoing monthly titled JLA.In Extreme Justice #0, Blue Beetle refers to them specifically as just the Justice League.