Gloria M. Gutman (born July 17, 1939 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) is a Gerontologist.[1]Dr. Gutman completed her bachelor’s degree in Psychology and English in 1961 at the University of British Columbia, B.C. Canada. She received her masters in Psychology of Aging in 1964 at the University of Alberta, Edmonton, and finished her Doctor of Philosophy in Developmental and Social Psychology in 1970 at the University of British Columbia.[2]Dr. Gutman currently is the immediate pAST President of the International Network for the Prevention of Elder Abuse and Vice-President of the newly established International Longevity Centre-Canada. She both developed and directed the Gerontology Research Center and the Gerontology Department at Simon Fraser University, and is now described as a professor emerita at Simon Fraser.[3] She also is a member of the Council of Aging Societies at the World Economic Forum, a member of the Elder Abuse Theme Team at the National Initiative for the care of the Elderly, a member of the Board of Directors at the International Institute on Aging, and a member of the World Health Organization’s Expert Advisory Panel on Health and Aging. In the past she has severed on the International Advisory Panel at IDGO, been a speaker at Social and Applied Gerontology Conference in Antalya, and has been the President of the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics. Dr. Gutman specializes in senior citizens’ housing, long-term care, seniors and emergency preparedness, elder abuse and neglect, health promotion, and a design for dementia.[4]Dr. Gutman has achieved an award named after her, the Gloria Gutman Conference Travel Award.[5] Distinguished students in the Gerontology graduate program at Simon Fraser University who are nominated for the award are given financial support to be put toward travel to an academic conference. She is an elected fellow of both the Gerontological Society of America and the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences. In recognition for her extensive work in the field, she was awarded the Order of British Columbia in 2007. For her far-reaching efforts toward and support of elder abuse research and prevention, she was awarded the Rosalie Wolf Memorial Award from the International Network for the Prevention of Elder Abuse in 2005. She was also awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws by the University of Western Ontario in 2010. She has also been named to the list of “Canada’s Top 25 over 25” in Zoomer’s Magazine.