He Lifeng (Chinese: 何立峰; born February 1955) is a Chinese politician. Since 2014, He has served as the deputy director of the National Development and Reform Commission. Prior to that he worked in Fujian province and Tianjin. He has held a number of significant posts, including party chief of Fuzhou, party chief of Xiamen, deputy party chief of Tianijn, and Chairman of the Tianjin People's Political Consultative Conference.He was born in Xingning, Guangdong. In August 1973 he went to Yongding County, Fujian as a rusticated youth. In November 1976, he participated in the construction of the Shixiangtan Hydroelectric Dam. After the resumption of the National College Entrance Examination, He gained admission to the Xiamen University school of economics; he studied finance. He went on to pursue a master's degree. After graduating he began work in Xiamen as a researcher for the special economic zone. In October, he began working for the Xianmen municipal government, beginning his career in politics.He worked in Fujian province for some 25 years. He worked successively in Xiamen, Quanzhou, Fuzhou. In Xiamen he headed the city's finance department (at the time, Xi Jinping was vice mayor of Xiamen). In 1990 he was promoted to party head of a city district. By February 1995 he was made mayor of Quanzhou, then party chief. He earned a doctorate in economics at around this time. In April 2000, he became Fuzhou party chief, by December 2001, he joined the Fujian provincial Party Standing Committee.[1] In May 2005 he was named party chief of Xiamen.In May 2009, he was transferred to Tianjin to become deputy party chief of the municipality, the head of the working committee of Binhai New Area, and the party chief of Tanggu District. In January 2013, he was named chairman of the Tianjin People's Political Consultative Conference.[2]In June 2014 he was named deputy Party Branch Secretary of the National Development and Reform Commission and also deputy director (minister-level). Since then He has emerged as one of the chief figures in charge of advancing economic reform policies.[3]He is an alternate member of the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.