Include (foaled in 1997) is a millionaire American Thoroughbred racehorse and successful sire. Bred in Maryland by Robert E. Meyerhoff and raced under the Fitzhugh LLC banner as his owner, he had a record of 20: 10-1-4 with career earnings of $1,659,560. Include was best known for his wins in the grade one Pimlico Special and the grade two New Orleans Handicap and Massachusetts Handicap.[1]Include was a slow-developing colt early in his career and raced only two times as a two-year-old, finishing out of the money once and finishing third in his second start for annual earnings of $4,280.At age three, Include finished off the board in his first start and then reeled off four straight wins. In April 2000, he broke his maiden in his fourth attempt. He won that maiden special weight race at a distance of seven furlongs at Laurel Park Racecourse by 9½ lengths. Then he scored wins in two straight allowance races in the summer in his home state of Maryland, both contested at Laurel Park. The first was a nine furlong dirt race that he won by three lengths, and the second was an eight and half furlong race that he won by 8¼ lengths over a field of multiple winners. Include also won the $100,000 Vincent A. Moscarelli Memorial Stakes at nine furlongs at Delaware Park by 9½ lengths, defeating Judge's Case and Lightning Paces. He finished his sophomore season with a record of (5): 4-0-0 and annual earnings of $92,880.[2]In 2001, Include had the best year of his career, which culminated in his being named Maryland's Champion Older Male and Horse Of The Year. As a four-year-old, he finished in the money in eight of nine races. During the first quarter of the year, Include won two stakes races at Fair Grounds Race Course. The first was a race was a prep for the next plateau in his career; he started with a win in the $125,000 Whirlaway Handicap at eight and a half furlongs. He followed that up with a win in the $500,000 grade two New Orleans Handicap at nine furlongs, beating well-regarded horses such as Nite Dreamer and Arkansas Derby winner Valhol. After his New Orleans success, he shipped north to Baltimore, Maryland and scored a 3¼ length win in the $100,000 Jennings Handicap, a nine-furlong route race on dirt at Pimlico Race Course.After his Jennings score, his connections decided to take a step up in class and compete in the $750,000 grade-one Pimlico Special Handicap. Include was bred and trained in Maryland, so many in the crowd threw their support behind him even though there had only been three Maryland winners of the "Special" before 2001. In that race, Include was the 5/2 second choice on the morning line in a field of seven graded stakes horses from around the country. He broke slowly but made up ground before the famous "Club house turn" at "Old Hilltop" and placed himself third rounding the track. He made a move at the top of the stretch and won the nine and a half furlong race in 1:55.3, defeating Albert the Great, Pleasant Breeze and Milwaukee Brew.Include followed up this win with a score in the $500,000 grade-two Massachusetts Handicap at Suffolk Downs just outside Boston, Massachusetts. In that race, he recorded a Rogozian figure of 1 in a time of 1:48.61 as he won by four lengths, defeating Sir Bear and Broken Vow at nine furlongs. In his next race, he placed third in the grade-two Suburban Handicap at Belmont Park to Albert the Great and Lido Palace of Chile. At the end of the summer, he placed third in the grade-two Meadowlands Cup, losing to Gander and Broken Vow by a neck. In the late autumn, Include finished the year with a runner-up performance in the $450,000 grade two Clark Handicap at Churchill Downs, losing by a neck to Ubiquity.During the last two years of his career, he earned 13 triple-digit Beyer speed figures in his final 15 starts, among which were back-to-back speed figures of 117. Include ended his four-year-old season with a record of (9): 5-1-2 and annual earnings of $1,435,400.At age five, Include raced four times with a record of (4): 1-0-1 and annual earnings of $127,000. His lone win came when he repeated in the $100,000 Jennings Handicap at Pimlico Race Course, defeating Lightning Paces and First Amendment in 1:49 by 9 lengths. The only other race where he hit the board that year was a show finish in the grade two Massachusetts Handicap behind Macho Uno and Evening Attire.Include was retired to Airdrie Stud in 2001. He represents the last chance for his sire Broad Brush to continue the Domino line.