Jeffrey Bergner is President and Managing Financial Partner of Bergner Bockorny, Inc. He is an adjunct professor at the National Security Studies Program at Georgetown University.Bergner Bockorny, Inc. was a registered foreign agent in March 1998 with the Taipei Economic & Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) (formerly: China External Trade Development Council (CCNAA)). "The registrant monitored legislation relating to Taiwan in the House and Senate. The registrant also monitored trade and political issues of interest to Taiwan. $32,500.00 for the six-month period ending March 20, 1998." The firm was again registered with the Taiwan government for its activities with the Taipei Economic & Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) (formerly: China External Trade Development Council (CCNAA)). The firm (i.e. registrant) "monitored legislation relating to Taiwan in the House and Senate. Other activities included general monitoring of trade and political issues of interest to Taiwan and received $45,500.00 for the six-month period ending September 20, 1997." [1] Also in 1997, the firm was acting as a registered foreign agent for the Friendship in Freedom: A German Initiative for European-American Relations. However, no financial activity was reported.[See article on International Trade below.][2]Bergner was Policy Director, Lugar for President Campaign; Staff Director, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; Chief of Staff/Legislative Director, Senator Richard Lugar; Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania; Visiting Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Michigan; and Visiting Professor of American Studies at Christopher Newport University in Newport News, VA.Bergner served as Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs from 2005 until July 2008.Bergner has affiliations with the Asia Foundation, the Calvert Institute for Public Policy, the Hudson Institute, and the Project for the New American Century.Bergner received his B.A. from Carleton College (1969), M.A. at Princeton University (1971), and Ph.D. from Princeton (1973).