Joie Chitwood III serves as president of International Speedway Corporation’s flagship motorsports facility—Daytona International Speedway (DIS). As president of DIS, Chitwood oversees all speedway activities including event entertainment, fan amenities and ticket sales. He assumed this role in August 2010.Chitwood was previously the Vice President of Business Operations for International Speedway Corporation (ISC), a motorsports entertainment company based in Daytona Beach, Fla. In this role, Chitwood led strategy development and business execution across the Company’s 13 motorsports facilities and Americrown Service Corp., ISC’s catering, concessions and merchandising subsidiary.Chitwood has received several industry honors and professional accolades throughout his career, including:Prior to joining ISC in August 2009, Chitwood served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Indianapolis Motor Speedway (IMS), overseeing daily operations for IMS, including Brickyard Crossing Inn and Brickyard Crossing Golf Course. He joined the staff of the IMS as Senior Vice President, Business Affairs on Oct. 1, 2002.Chitwood was also Vice President and General Manager of Raceway Associates, LLC, which oversaw construction of the 1.5-mile Chicagoland Speedway in Joliet, Ill., from 1999-2002. In 2001, the track began to host Indy Racing League- and NASCAR-sanctioned events. During his tenure at Chicagoland, Chitwood also served on the board of directors of several Joliet-area economic development organizations.Chitwood was also an integral part of his family’s entertainment business, the well-known Chitwood Thrill Show, beginning at age 5. He began his career as a stuntman and later specialized in precision driving.In 1992, Chitwood earned a business administration and finance degree from the University of Florida. He also studied at Cambridge University in England and earned a master of business administration degree from the University of South Florida.Chitwood sits on the board of trustees for the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America. He also serves on the boards of the Daytona Beach Chamber of Commerce and the Central Florida Partnership, and is a member of the advisory committee for the Sports Executive Leadership Conference. He was previously a member of the Indianapolis 2012 Super Bowl bid committee and the 500 Festival board of directors, and was an adjunct professor at Marian College in Indianapolis.Contrary to popular belief, he is not the brother of Daytona Beach Police Chief Mike Chitwood.