Kalyani Government Engineering College (KGEC), in Kalyani, West Bengal, India offers undergraduate (B.Tech.) and postgraduate (M.Tech., M.C.A.) engineering degree courses under West Bengal University of Technology (WBUT). The institution is regulated, operated and sponsored by the State Government of West Bengal. [1] KGEC is ranked 69 in all India rankings of Top 100 Engineering College in India in 2012.[2] As per survey conducted by The Telegraph, it is ranked 5th best engineering college in West Bengal which admits through WBJEE. [3] But according to opening and closing ranks in WBJEE, it comes just after Jadavpur University and BESU (Bengal Engineering & Science University), Shibpur. It has a strong faculty team with quality previous experience in reputed government technical institutions all over India.Kalyani Government Engineering College is an engineering college within West Bengal and in India. The college was established in 1995 by the Government of West Bengal. The college is located within the University of Kalyani Campus, Kalyani Township, District Nadia, West Bengal. Kalyani is 53 km. from the Sealdah Railway station (Eastern Railways) of Kolkata and also connected through Kalyani Highways. The railway station nearest to the College is Kalyani Ghoshpara, about 2 km. away from the venue.[4]KGEC offers four-year under-graduate degree courses in the following five disciplines:The undergraduate students (B.Tech.) of this college are admitted from the WB Joint Entrance Examination (WB-JEE)which is very competitive in nature. B.Tech. courses have provision of 20% lateral entry at the second year level from WB Joint Entrance Examination for Lateral Entry (JELET). Similarly, the M.C.A. students are being admitted through WB MCA Joint Entrance Examination (JECA). The institute takes admission to M Tech courses by GATE examination and PGET exam conducted by WBUT.The institute being a government one, has no management quota private admission facility for any of its courses.The college has five boys hostels:Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy Hall is reserved for first year students. All the hostels except VC are located inside the college campus.There is accommodation for the MCA students, in Vidyaagar chhatrabas (vc).Students are united by the KGEC Students Union.Cultural activities include Blood Donation Camp, Annual Festival (Techtix and Exotica) "www.espektro.co.in";, Freshers' Welcome, Teachers' Day, and Alumni Meet.The Students' Union published their first annual Magazine, 'Bhor' in 2008. There is a library operated by the Students' Union. The Students' Union conducts the annual sports, the annual cricket tournament and the annual football tournament.Seminars, debates, quiz, workshops and exhibitions are included in the activities of KGECSU. The Union has a Science Club, a Game Club, an Astronomy Club, a Robotics Club and a Music Club.There are 11 portfolios in the Union - President, Vice President, General Secretary, Assistant General Secretary, Cultural Secretary, Game Secretary, Magazine & Library Secretary, Cashier, Assistant Cashier, Office Secretary and Auditors.The college boasts of illustrious alumni in almost all reputed multinational companies such as Yahoo, Samsung, Cisco, Intel, Novell, Philips Labs, Bloomberg, Sensity Systems, Applied Research Works, Tata Consultancy Services, Capgemini, Sap, Oracle, Tech Mahindra and public sector companies such as IOCL,SAIL and are spread throughout the world. Besides, several ex-students of the institute pursue higher studies at top institutes of the country such as IIMs and IITs and abroad such as Carnegie Mellon University, Stony Brook University,etc.