Marco Fiorito known as Kaos One, Don Kaos, Dottor K, Ahmad or simply Kaos (Caserta, June 11, 1971) is an Italian rapper, beatmaker, writer, began his career in 1985, first as a dancer breakdance and writer, then as MC, first in English and then in Italian. Kaos has been one of the forerunners of Italian Rap.After working as a writer, Kaos between 1986 and 1987 knows DJ Gruff and American MC Top Cat, which organizes some jam and is the Fresh Press Crew, which also includes DJ Skizo and Sean Martin. The group, with the entry of Dre Love also changes name to Radical Stuff. The first musical works of Kaos is in English, in 1989 released their first single Let's Get Dizzy for Flying Records. In 1990, after the song I Guess You Know, began to work towards a live album recorded in collaboration with jazz musicians. The LP Live With Lo Greco Bros was released in 1992, followed by the single Summer Fever On tha Run of 1993 and 1994. Meanwhile Kaos began collaborating with artists participating with their own songs to their records, the first is dated 1993 when the disc is inserted into the Rapadopa DJ Gruff the song Don Kaos, which is also the first song in the Italian Kaos. In 1994 he participated in the song Hello, hello I hate the hard Full of Colle der Fomento and in the same year he published together with the Radical Stuff their second and last album called Hardaswallow, even in English. After these experiences Kaos began working to release her first album in Italian, it was released in 1996 with the collaboration of discomfort Neffa (on this record under the name Piscopo), MDee, Loudy NCN and Sean returns the collaboration of participating Neffa in the same year with two tracks on the disc Neffa & i Messaggeri della Dopa: "I Messaggeri Pt.1" and "I fieri B-Boyz." Neffa also deals with the basis for discomfort, it is in fact the manufacturer of these for thirteen of the fifteen tracks on the disc (one in collaboration with Kaos). After his debut solo continues collaborations with different artists and in 1997, appears both in the world that there is no disk in Chief & Soci in the new disc titled Gruff Zero Stress. Also in 1997, the Milanese MC collaborated on the soundtrack for the film Torino Boys with the song "Quando vengo a prenderti", then the album Neffa 107 elementi with the song "Strategie dell'universo". The following year he released a 12 "contains remixes of discomfort, titled "Kaos '98 Remix". In 1999 he made "Cose preziose", was added to Novecinquanta Fritz Da Cat, and it is with Sean and Chico MD of Sangue Misto group Melma & Merda, with whom he released the album Merda & Melma. In the same year sees the light -/-/-/-/- (L'attesa) published by Jackpot Records Neffa, in collaboration with Freaktons, with producers Chico MD and Neffa, and himself to the test of the bases.In 2002 he participated in the project Neo Ex, impromptu training consists of Kaos and Gopher which publishes The missing disc, which features collaborations Moddi MC, Phase 2, Turi, Lugi and B. Soulee. In 2006, one of the leaders of the project "The Original" by Speaker Dee Mo where the soundtrack composer Franco Micalizzi and some of the best artists of Hip hop music Micalizzi Italian joined with the Hip Hop culture. On May 30, 2006 was held at Rolling Stone in Milan's spectacular concert by Red Bull Homegroove, characterized by the sound of Big Bubbling Band conducted by Franco Micalizzi joined on stage by MCs, B-boys and DJ. Everything was taken and was released on newsstands June 20 attached to the magazine Groove. The concert was then replicated December 20, 2006 at the Teatro Palladium in Rome. In October 2007, he released Karma, Mc penultimate album, produced by himself, DJ Trix, Don Joe, DJ Shablo, Mace and DJ Silver. It features collaborations with artists of the Italian scene as Turi, Club Dogo, Colle Der Fomento and Moddi MC. In 2011 he collaborated with Deda to produce, under the name BBeat, two tracks the No. 1 "Fifteen minutes," and No. 9 "National Anthem Personal" Hypnosis Collective, disk Musteeno [1]. His last work, the album was released Post Scripta November 11, 2011 with the official shirt that mimics the explanation on the disc. In conjunction Kaos launched the new official website [2] and the Twitter profile [3]. Among the different tracks glories unpublished already made famous in his live, as Dr. K and the 2 half of which was filmed a video [4] (Made by Alberto Salvucci) posted on YouTube in conjunction with the album. At 48 hours of release, the disc reaches the first position in "Hip-Hop" in iTunes and fourth place overall among the best selling records in Italy. [5] In addition to digital, the album sold very well in support physical, doing sold out in many shops in Italy where it was distributed. On 27 November 2011 he was host of the radio program of Rai Radio 2 Babylon [6] conducted by Charles Shepherd where he explained "track by track" (track to track) the whole album Post Scripta. This presentation radio, accompanied by clips of the songs, is one of the few appearances of an average of national importance Kaos has always been reluctant to media exposure. Kaos is one of the few b-boy to have reached all the major disciplines of hip hop. [7] [8] In addition to writers, breakers and mc, in fact, he stood behind the plates as a DJ in some of his works. In addition, since '96 intro of "discomfort", and in 1998 in Viva Los Latinos (track album Fly Cat), began composing foundation for hip-hop, then that role he was also in the songs "Flow dopo flow (giocando col destino)" and "Dio lodato (per questa chance)", made in 1998 and 1999 for the rapper Joe Cassano, as well as other pieces of -/-/-/-/- (L'attesa), Merda & Melma and kARMA (under the pseudonym of Ahmad). In 2011 there took place the Hip Hop Hano Award 2011 created a poll on the site Hano.it to decide the best Hip Hop album of the year, which saw the participation of over 13,000 persone.Il prize for best album of the year was won by Kaos with his album Post ScriptaIt is this, along with many members of the Italian underground scene in the video of "there" [10] of Otierre, where you see the console. The special thing about this video is that the appearance of every artist is accompanied by the address and phone number. Appears in the video for "Waiting for the Sun" [11] Neffa and together with other MC in "Born To Be Abramo" [12] Elio e le Storie Tese 1997 in some of the pieces which make up the video. Bassi Maestro Dedicated in the song, this album in his Hate, remembering his sources of inspiration and all those that have led to improvements in music, also cites Kaos.1996 - Fastidio1999 -/-/-/-/- (L'attesa)2007 - kARMA2011 - Post Scripta1992 - Radical Stuff & Lo Greco Bros. - The Jazzy Rap Night - Live1994 - Hardaswallow1999 - Merda & Melma2002 - L'anello mancante EP