PJSC "KredoBank" (Ukrainian: ПАТ "Кредобанк") is the bank with the largest Polish investment in banking institution in Ukraine. Kredobank national network contains central branch and 130 outlets throughout Ukraine. Today, European investment is 99.6% in the share capital of Kredobank, Ukrainian capital is 0.4%. KREDOBANK is a member of the Association of Ukrainian banks, Ukrainian credit and banking union, the First Stock Trading System, Kyiv interbank currency exchange. Also, Kredobank is a member of such international payment systems, as MasterCard Worldwide, Visa International and the Deposit Guarantee Fund.The public joint-stock company Kredobank, the successor of JSC Kredyt Bank (Ukraine) and JSC West-Ukrainian Commercial Bank (ZUKB), was established in Lviv and was registered as a limited liability company in the State Bank of the former USSR on May 14, 1990 (registration number 289) and re-registered with the National Bank of Ukraine on October 14, 1991 (registration number 24). On February 21, 1992 at the General Shareholders Meeting ZUKB transformed into open joint-stock company (bank registration certificate number 96 on 31.03.1992). According to the Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting on August 17, 2001 the bank changed its name from JSC West-Ukrainian Commercial Bank to JSC Kredyt Bank (Ukraine), and therefore the Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting on October 26 in 2001 made the appropriate changes in the Charter of the bank. In 2004, the process of changing the strategic investor of JSC Kredyt Bank (Ukraine) has been finished .There was the sale of shares (whole package - 66.65%) of Kredyt Bank SA (Warsaw) in Warsaw, in favor of the most powerful Polish bank PKO Bank Polski SA. As a result, the Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting of JSC Kredyt Bank (Ukraine) was held on November 17, 2005, where shareholders approved replacing the old name of the bank by new one, which is the open joint-stock company Kredobank. On March 1, 2006 bank officially changed its name to PJSC Kredobank.[3]Dynamic growth of KREDOBANK rates, entering new geographic markets, expanding the range of services, implementing new banking technologies cause the need for continuous changes in the organizational structure of the bank and building the new one that would allow to respond quickly to market changing conditions. On December 1, 2012 the organizational structure of PJSC KREDOBANK is formed with the main bank, the central branch and 130 outlets. PJSC Kredobank employs over 2,000 people, most people with higher and higher financial and economic education. The amount of young people under 35 dominates. Business trainings for personnel are carried out with the assistance of international institutions: the British Know How Fund, Western Ukrainian initiative ACDI / VOCA (Agriculture Co-operative Development International). Considerable assistance in training provides PKO BP SA, in which personnel is trained and gains the experience on Polish financial market.