Lightbox is a $100 million venture fund based in Mumbai. It invests early in consumer tech companies in India.[1]Operating as Sherpalo for the last nine years, investments include InMobi, Cleartrip, Naukri.com and GreenDust.[2]Sandeep Murthy, Sid Talwar, Prashant Mehta, Sunny Rao and Jeremy Wenokur are general partners at the firm.Sandeep Murthy had spent the previous nine years advising Sherpalo Ventures on India investments.[3] Other Indian based partners include Siddharth Talwar, an angel investor who founded and sold Evolv to NIIT and Prashant Mehta, former CEO of Komli Media who grew the business 50x and expanded the company into 10 new markets. The US partners include Sunny Rao, currently CEO of ZoomIn who earlier co-founded Half.com which was acquired by eBay for US$350 million and Jeremy Wenokur, an angel investor who has spent the past 17 years in the consumer technology space in the U.S. and was Google’s first corporate development person.Between 2012 and 2014, the partners were actively investing in tech companies in India. Separately and together, they invested in early stage startups such as ShopClues and Embibe. Sandeep Murthy and Sid Talwar are also involved with non-profit organization Magic Bus that empowers children through sport to deliver confident young people directly into higher education, training or the workplace. This year, Magic Bus also received recognition for its efforts and was presented the Laureus Sport for Good Award at the Laureus World Sport Awards.[4]On 30 April 2014, the firm launched two funds – Lightbox Ventures I and Lightbox Ventures II - to invest in start-up companies in the consumer technology space in India. Lightbox Ventures I acquired equity stakes in GreenDust, ZoomIn, MapmyIndia, Paymate, FutureBazaar and Kotak Urja. Lightbox Ventures II was launched as a $90 million (₹540 crore) fund for a concentrated investment portfolio of eight companies in which it will invest $3 to 5 million in Series A funding with an investment horizon of 7–8 years.A month after the launch of Lightbox Ventures II, on 3 May 2014, Lightbox along with Kalaari Capital announced a $4 million investment in test prep company Embibe, founded by Aditi Avasthi. [5]In May 2014, Economic Times named Murthy in their list of 'India's hottest 40 under 40' business leaders.[6]On 13 October 2014, Lightbox announced the close of its second fund at $100 million (₹600 crores).[7]In the first quarter of 2015, Lightbox invested $7milion (₹42 crores) in tech-enabled fast food chain Faaso's, founded by Jaydeep Barman. [8] and $6 million (₹36 crores) in India's first furniture subscription brand Furlenco.[9] Furlenco’s unique business model focuses on giving people access to furniture through a subscription model.Lightbox Ventures II was also awarded the VC Fundraiser of the Year at the VCCircle Awards 2015.[10]In July 2015, Lightbox invested $15.6 million (₹100 crores) in Droom founded by former ShopClues CEO Sandeep Aggarwal. Droom is India's first marketplace to buy and sell automobiles. [11]InMobiInfoEdgeCleartrip