LiveWired Ministries was an interdenominational Christian organization that promotes the concept of small groups that are designed to meet the needs of every person, providing elements of other kinds of groups (social, support, and service), but also stimulants for bringing people to a place of peace and spiritual maturity. LiveWired also had a strong emphasis on college and career.[1]LiveWired began as a small group (Bible study) held in an apartment in Columbus, Ohio in 2004. After meeting together on a weekly regular basis and watching members come and go, in 2005 David Peregrina proposed the concept of small group planting. Peregrina, co-leader of the group, met up with Aaron Bohn who at the time was the small group leader and Brendan Phillips, another co-leader of the small group to discuss the concept. After a year of praying it was decided to officially start the project.The regular routine was to start off discussing what everyone was going through the past week. After sharing, the group would spend some time in music and worship, a short message presented by the leader, and finally a discussion on the topic that was presented. Groups would be split by gender to avoid situations of individuals feeling as though they couldn't share problems they were having without feeling embarrassed or uncomfortable. The concept for the group was to keep the same routine but to add a formula for a more direct discipleship. The leader would pick every other week to have a small group member present the topic. The idea was that by spending time doing research and reading the Bible the member would have an opportunity to have one-on-one spiritual growth as well as the group discussion to help the individual in their process of spiritual maturity. Another major concept of small group planting was to continue the process until a member seemed fit to be put in a leadership position in a small group, similar to the idea of an internship. Once the member was ready, the small group would split into two groups, one with the current leader and the other with the new leader. This would provide an opportunity for both groups to grow, but still maintain the intimate and comfortable setting. The final concept of small group planting was what prevented LiveWired from becoming church plants. The idea was to educate individuals on material from the Bible to empower the individual to go back and serve in their home church. The belief was that church was not a place for the believer to be fed by the church, but for the believer to feed the church. In essence it was about giving to those around you and helping those in need.In 2007 the idea for LiveWired to start outside of the United States was implemented and a small group was started in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.In late 2006, David Peregrina started the LiveWired Society, an offshoot of LiveWired that would provide a place for students of a specific university to get involved. The idea for the LiveWired Society was exactly the same, but to add an emphasis on a campus helping in their surrounding community. The LiveWired Society was founded at Mount Vernon Nazarene University in Mount Vernon, Ohio by David Peregrina and shortly after at the Ohio State University by Aaron Bohn.[2]In 2007, the LiveWired Society (MVNU Chapter) decided there was a need to build a relationship with Kenyon College to be able to be more effective in both the Mount Vernon and Gambier communities and the Knox County surrounding area. Instead of looking to start another LiveWired Society they chose to partner with Saturday Night Fellowship (SNF) from Coalition for Christian Outreach[3] at Kenyon College. Together the groups would meet on a regular basis both as a whole and for leadership meetings. As a jump start to the new partnership a two part event was coordinated on both campuses, called UNITE '09. This event featured the United Worship Band (formed from students of both colleges).In late 2009, David Peregrina, director of LiveWired Ministries made the decision to disband LiveWired Ministries stating, "LiveWired has fulfilled its purpose in God's plan. People in the areas we invested our time into are doing what LiveWired does as second nature. There is no longer a need for an organization to help people do what they're already doing. I'm so proud of everyone that has invested in us and helped prepare dozens of individuals to help build their churches, communities, and themselves into the best they can be to help others."