Marian High School is a private, Catholic college preparatory school for young women located in Omaha, Nebraska. It is located in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Omaha. Marian was founded in 1955 by the Servants of Mary. Its 23-acre (93,000 m2) campus is located in the north central portion of Omaha, near the junction of Military and 72nd Street.[1]Marian has won the U.S. Department of Education Blue Ribbon Award for Academic Excellence twice. It is the only Class A, North Central accredited college preparatory high school in the state of Nebraska for girls.[1] Their mascot is the Crusader.Academic focus areas include science, math, languages, fine arts, social studies and religion. Marian has been a North Central Accredited college preparatory school for almost two decades. There are 37 honors courses, ten advanced placement courses and ten dual enrollment classes that allow students to proceed at a more rapid pace and/or to approach subjects in more depth. Marian is a Catholic school sponsored by the Servants of Mary and warmly welcomes students of all religious, cultural and economic backgrounds.Marian High School is a member of: -The National Catholic Educational Association NCEA -The National Association of Secondary School Principals NASSP -The Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development ASCD -Women School’s Together WST -The Nebraska School Activities Association NSAAMarian is accredited by The State of Nebraska and The North Central Association Commission on Accreditation NCA as a college preparatory school.[1]The school defines its "Invitation to Spiritual Development" for students as: -Learning about their faith in theology classes that focus on scripture, morality, Catholic/Christian teaching and Sacraments. -Celebrating their faith in liturgy and daily prayer. -Strengthening their faith through retreats. -Witnessing their faith through Christian service.Marian High School provides numerous clubs, sports, and activities for involvement outside of the classroom.Marian's athletic program consists of nine Class A state-sanctioned sports: volleyball, cross country, softball, golf, basketball, track & field, swimming & diving, tennis and soccer. They have won over fifty-five state championships in seven sports since the Nebraska School Activities Association has had sanctioned girls sports since 1971.The Walk-A-Thon is an all-student facilitated fundraiser for the school. Participating students are responsible for collecting pledges from the community. Each student walks six miles on the day of Walk-A-Thon. The winner of walk-a-thon gets to pick color and field day theme first, in order of placement in walk-a-thon.The Pop Hop is an event for fathers and daughters, and allows them to have their photo taken together, have dinner and then dance.Surprise Day is an event planned each year by the Student Board, usually occurring during the second semester. It involves a half day of games and entertainment instead of scheduled classes.At this event, mothers and daughters have their photo taken together, enjoy a dessert and coffee social and candlelight reflection all before the night’s entertainment.gnimocemoH, which is "homecoming" spelled backwards, is Marian's approach to homecoming. Instead of a football game, Marian hosts a spirited faculty-versus-student volleyball game. Later that evening, students attend an informal dance where they don wacky attire and crown the neeuQ (queen), usually known as Marian's most spirited student.Field Day is held the last Friday in April and is Marian's largest event of the year. Marian students spend the week leading up to Field Day making costumes, decorating halls, building mascots, learning songs, and perfecting routines, all in anticipation of winning the coveted Field Day trophy.