Miss Panamá 2014 is the 47th Annual edition of the Miss Panamá pageant was select representatives from Panama to Miss World, Miss Universe & Miss Intercontinental pageant. The pageant has been split into two contests this year Miss Panamá Mundo and Miss Panamá Universo. This is the four edition of the pageant under the management of Marisela Moreno [1] former Miss World Panama, the OMP (Miss Panamá Organization) and broadcast live on Telemetro. About 16 contestants from all over Panamá will compete for the prestigious crown. Miss Panamá 2013, Carolina Brid crowned to Yomatzy Maurineth Hazlewood De La Rosa at the end of the event as the new Miss Panamá Universe, also Sara Bello Miss Intercontinental Panamá 2013 crowned to Stephanie Gonzáles as the new Miss Intercontinental Panamá.This year there was a new change after four years was continued the final competition entitled "Miss Panamá World" was announced the winner of the Miss Panamá Mundo title. Virginia Hernández Miss Panamá World 2013 crowned Raiza Patricia Erlenbaugh Soriano as the new Miss Panamá World at the end of the event. The winner cannot participate in the competition for Miss Panama Universe.Yomatzy Hazlewood Miss Panamá Universe represented Panama in Miss Universe 2014 in Doral, USA. Raiza Erlenbaugh, Miss Panamá World, on the other hand, will represent the country in Miss World 2014 which was held in London, United Kingdom, but on November 12, 2014 she was dethroned as Miss World Panamá 2014 by the Miss Panamá Organization and replaced by Nicole Pinto. Stephanie Paulette Gonzáles Miss Panamá Intercontinental represented the country in Miss Intercontinental 2014 in Germany.The Miss Panamá Universe was held at the Hotel Riu Plaza Panama., Ciudad de Panamá, Panama, the Thurday 12, June 2014.[2] About 16 contestants from all over Panamá will compete for the prestigious crown. Miss Panamá 2013, Carolina Brid crowned her successor at the end of the event as the new Miss Panamá Universe, also Sara Bello Miss Intercontinental Panamá 2013 crowned her successor as the new Miss Intercontinental Panamá. Darién - Yomatzy Hazlewood Los Santos (Miss Las Tablas) - Stephanie Paulette Gonzáles Panamá Oeste (Miss Chame) - Nicole Pinto Herrera (Miss Ocú) - Elida Guadalupe Navarro Madrid Veraguas (Miss Santiago) - Leydili Marieth Caballero Domínguez Veraguas (Miss Veraguas) - Marisel Franco GonzálezKeisy N. Amaya Mojica (Miss Portobelo)Sara Elicia Cook Ramírez (Miss Ancón)Yomatzy Hazlewood (Miss Darien)Astrid Yamileth Torres (Miss Coclé)Marisel Franco González (Miss Veraguas)Astrid Yamileth Torres (Miss Coclé)Yomatzy Hazlewood (Miss Darien)Angelica Milena Cedeño Espino (Miss Panamá Este)Leydili Marieth Caballero Domínguez (Miss Santiago)This year the contestant, was celebrated in a private casting. It is a competition showing the country's wealth embodied in the colorful and fascinating costumes made by Panamenian designers combining the past and present of Panama. The winner costume represent Panamá in Miss Universe 2014.Held on Wednesday June 11 to Miss Panama candidates were qualified in swimsuit and personal interview.These are the competitors who have been selected this year.[3]This Preliminary Competition also called The Runway and the Council of the Misses the event will be held on 8 April 2014, is the night when the fifteen finalists were selected from Miss Panama Universe 2014. A jury panel, together with the advice of the misses, selected the finalists based on the outputs of the girls during the event in the Swimsuit and cocktail dress categories. This night also will be selected the winner of the Miss Panama World title.The Miss Panamá Mundo pageant was held at the Hotel Riu Plaza Panama, Ciudad de Panamá, Panama, on April 8, 2014. About 24 contestants from all over Panamá will compete for the prestigious title. This year by decision of the international Miss World Organization, the election of the new global sovereign will be held in a separate competition to the traditional national election. Virginia Hernández Miss Panamá World 2013 crowned to Raiza Patricia Erlenbaugh Soriano as the new Miss Panamá World. Panamá Centro - Raiza Patricia Erlenbaugh SorianoThese are the competitors who have been selected this year for the Miss Panama World. Contestants who were part of the top 19, eliminated in the preliminary meeting on March 4, 2013 are in color.(Miss Panamá World 2014)(Miss Panamá Universe 2014)