Montessori High School at University Circle (also known as MHS) is a private high school located in the University Circle neighborhood of Cleveland, Ohio. The school opened August 2008 as the first private high school in the USA with the Montessori name,[2] and was the first Montessori high school to offer boarding for students. The campus includes three mansions converted into classrooms and rooms for boarding students. MHS combines Montessori education with the International Baccalaureate program,[3] one of three to do so in the United States.[4]MHS is certified by the State of Ohio which allows graduates to earn an Ohio High School diploma. The students may choose to take International Baccalaureate exams to earn the International Baccalaureate diploma or certificates in selected International Baccalaureate courses.Lillard Hall and Otis House sit next to one another, with a campus quad situated between them. Ferris House sits across from the quad, next to the recently acquired Friends' House. In 2015, MHS announced that all music courses will be offered through The Music Settlement and will be taught by Settlement faculty members.The curriculum combines Montesori-based developmental learning with formal disciplines, partnering with neighboring University Circle institutions as interdisciplinary resources for reinforcement of education.[8] These affiliations include:[9]In 2008, the campus opened up with 37 students, including 17 boarders, and two houses: Otis House & Lillard Hall. Upon opening the school was only open to grades 9th through 11th. The entire campus cost a combined $6 million, including $2.5 million used to buy Lillard Hall in 2006. Lillard Hall was renovated and then occupied in 2007. The first graduating class consisted of 8 students in 2010.[10] By Fall 2011, 80 students were enrolled at MHS, open to grades 9th through 12th.[4]Tempe Union proposed opening a Montessori High School by 2013. According to an article in the Arizona Republic, "[Superintendent Kenneth Baca] is looking at Montessori High School at University Circle in Cleveland as a model for ideas, and he hopes to take district staff, a school-board member and interested community members to visit the school in the fall."[11]