Patna University, the first university in Bihar, was established in 1917 during the British Raj, and is the seventh oldest university of the Indian subcontinent. At that time, the jurisdiction of the university extended to Bihar, Odisha, and the Kingdom of Nepal. The university oversaw examinations for educational institutions ranging from school finals to the postgraduate levels. This continued almost for four decades, until the establishment of the Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, and the Utkal University, Bhubaneshwar.[2]The university has several colleges and institutions which cover areas of study including law, teacher training, science, arts, commerce, medicine and engineering. Since 1974, the university has also a Directorate of Distance Education.Some scholars who contributed to the growth of the University include the Rashtrakavi Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar', Mahamahopadhyaya Pandit Ram Avatar Sharma, Pandit Nalin Vilochan Sharma, Pandit Devendranath Sharma, R. K. Sinha. and Sir Chandeshwar Prasad Narayan Singh.Patna College was founded on 9 January 1863.[3] From 1863 to 1917 the college was affiliated to the University of Calcutta. It then became affiliated to the newly founded University of Patna.[4]After the partition of Bengal in 1905, the first constituent assembly was held in seminar hall of this college.[5][6]Patna Science College is an institute of higher education in science which began in 1927 as the science department of Patna College. It was formally opened on 15 November 1928 by the then Viceroy, Lord Irwin.[7] As of 2010, the college has five laboratories, located in separate buildings, and offers courses in physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, geology, mathematics, statistics and management, as well as various vocational courses.Dr Kaveri Ghosh, an alumnus of this college was Young Scientist Awardee in Life Science in the year 1992.It provides 3 year B. Sc. (Honours) courses in aforementioned subjects along with M. Sc. course. Earlier, 10+2 courses were also available, but these have been discontinued now.It has an in-campus hostel named Newton which was started along with college. Other hostels are Faraday, Cavendish, Raman located near the college in PU campus. Bhabha is located near Rajendra Nagar Stadium. Girls Hostel is shared with other PU colleges and it is located next to college. Students take up residence in nearby private lodges also.For sports facilities, there is a sports building and 3 fields.Each department has its own library as well as its own building. Students also have access to PU library located next to it.College is located between PU main library and NIT, Patna on Ashok Rajpath. You can reach here by auto, bus and rickshaw from various parts of the city.A survey training school was established in 1886 and this became Bihar School of Engineering in 1900. A graduate level curriculum was introduced in 1924. It was renamed as Bihar College of Engineering in 1932. In 2004 it became known as the National Institute of Technology, Patna as a consequence of a government policy to develop centres of excellence in technical education. At this time it ceased to be affiliated to the university as it gained full autonomy.[8]The College of Arts and Crafts is an institute for advanced training in visual arts. It was established on 25 January 1939 at Govind Mitra Road, Patna by Radha Mohanjee, with Rajendra Prasad (the first President of India) as one of the original members of its management committee. The state government of Bihar took control of the college in 1949 and in 1957 the school moved to a new location at Vidyapati Marg, Patna. In 1972 it was renamed as the College of Arts and Crafts and on 12 April 1977 it became a part of Patna University, at which time its diploma course was converted into degree course.Bihar National College was established in 1889, and as at 2010 is located near to the Gandhi Maidan. It caters for about 3,500 students following multi-disciplinary courses in science, arts and commerce.[9]Patna Women's College was founded on 14 September 1940 by Bishop B. J. Sullivan and Mother M. Josephine, the Superior General of the Apostolic Carmel. It was the first college for women in the state of Bihar. Originally operating from Sullivan's own residence, it relocated to premises at Bailey Road which were given to it by Sir Thomas George Rutherford, Governor of Bihar, in 1945. The relocation did not take place until 1948 due to the desire to construct buildings which were in keeping with the High Court which is situated opposite to the college.[10]The college is run by the Sisters of the Apostolic Carmel. It was allowed initially to teach up to intermediate level in arts but in 1941 was accredited to offer degree courses. It became a part of the Patna University in 1952. The college has been offering science courses since 1988.Patna Medical College was established in 1925 as the Prince of Wales Medical College. It is located on Ashok Rajpath. The college saw a decline in its stature during the period of 1988-1998 during the period roughly coinciding with the government of Lalu Prasad Yadav but has recovered since.[citation needed] The hospital has 1,700 beds.[citation needed]Patna Dental College is an institute for dental science which was established by Dr R. P. Lall on 9 September 1960 in the premises of Patna Medical College and Hospital.Magadh Mahila College is one of the best college of East India. It is NAAC Accreated 'A' Grade college of Patna University.Patna Training College, Patna Law College, Vanijya Mahavidyala, the Bihar College of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy, and the Women’s Training College also form part of the University of Patna.