Sarit Hadad (Hebrew: שרית חדד‎, Hebrew pronunciation: [saˈrit ħaˈdad]) (born on September 20, 1978) is an Israeli singer. In October 2009, the Israeli Music TV Channel (Channel 24) crowned Hadad "best female singer of the 2000s".[1]Hadad was born as Sarah Khudadatov (Hebrew: שרה חודדטוב) in the town of Afula, Israel in a large traditional Mountain Jewish family that later moved to the city of Hadera. When she was ten years old, she participated in the contest of young talents, where she performed on the piano. She also played the organ, guitar, accordion, and darbuka.Hadad comes from a musical family and was recognized as a child prodigy. She began performing at the age of eight. She played the piano at a local club without telling her parents.[dubious – discuss] Apart from classical piano, she taught herself to play the organ, guitar, accordion, and a Middle Eastern drum known as the darbuka. At the age of 15, she joined the Hadera Youth Band. When she was 16 she was discovered by Avi Gueta, who is still her manager.Hadad's career as a pop singer has been highly successful, with many of her songs topping the Israeli charts. Israeli Television selected her to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002. The song, Nadlik Beyakhad Ner (Light A Candle) (in Hebrew: נדליק ביחד נר), came in 12th place, although Swedish and Belgian TV commentators both told their local audiences not to vote for Hadad due to her nationality (while Sweden did cast zero votes for Hadad, Belgium ended up giving her two votes anyway).[2][3]In 2004, she collaborated with David D'Or to record the DVD Pets in Tunes.In December 2006, Hadad drew crowds in New York, Miami, and Los Angeles with her "Sing with Sarit" tour. In July 2007, Madonna revealed that she is a fan of Hadad, and enjoys listening to her music when dining at a kosher restaurant near her home.[4]Hadad typically performs Mizrahi music, often employing Arabic lyrics.Hadad does not generally perform on Jewish holidays or on the Jewish Sabbath ("Shabbat"),[5] but did perform on a Saturday in the 2002 Eurovision Song Contest.Sarit Hadad sings in multiple languages, including; English, Arabic, Georgian, Turkish, Greek and Hebrew. She was the first Israeli to perform (professionally) in Jordan.[6]Sarit Hadad is a judge in the inaugural season of The Voice Israel on Israeli television.Mega Mix – 1999 – מגה מיקסAlbum