Shahed University (Persian:دانشگاه شاهد), was founded in 1990. The university started its activities by accepting 165 students in seven branches in 1991. It has currently more than 8000 students in 68 branches. Today Shahed university has 8 colleges and 7 Research Institutions.[1] Now, like other prominent universities of Iran,it is one of the first options chosen by applicants in the annual nationwide entrance exam.[2] Shahed University is located in the capital city of Tehran. The main campus is located in the southern part of Tehran along the Persian gulf Freeway.The campus hosts headquarters offices, girls dormitories, a central library and faculties of humanities, engineering, sciences and agriculture. Its medical colleges and training hospitals, the Art college, the Nursing and Midwifery Faculty, the Dental college and research centers are distributed in the Central Tehran. Shahed University offers three dormitories, and is equipped with a pool, a football field, and a volleyball and basketball hall. Additionally, each faculty offers its own library, plus a Central library near the Humanities and Management College. Students can enjoy their free time at the cafeteria near the Engineering college, separated for males and females ease of use. Plus a huge Mahdie (Prayer Center) with full facilities is dedicated to both genders and is open at all times to meet the Islamic beliefs. The number of foreign students accepted in the university from Arabic-speaking countries are increasing every year. Mostafa Khomeini Hospital( in city center ) is under Shahed university supervision(Faculty of medicine). Shahed university world rank in 2012 is 4073 in 4International Colleges and Universities and 3293 in webometrics.Shahed university consists of 8 colleges; each offering various majors for the students:The College of Agriculture Science at Shahed University ranks in the top best three colleges of agriculture in Iran. A great field is dedicated to the students to experiment on. Each student gets a piece of land to work on and is graded both in theoretical and practical aspects.
Majors offered for Bachelor students (BSc):Soil Science - Horticultural Science - Agronomy and Plant Science -Medical plant Science.
Majors offered for Master students (MSc):Pedology - Soil chemical Science -Soil Physics Science - Entomology - Plant Disease Science.It is the second great college of Shahed University. Every year many research papers including ISI journals are published by talented students and professors. Many graduates of this college have opportunities to continue their education in high level universities in developed countries. The college has different departments for different majors:Scope: Medicinal SciencesScope: Clinical Psychology & PersonalityScope: Commercial StrategiesScope: Islam Related StudiesScope: Educational Progress RatingACCEPTS PAPERS IN ENGLISH AS WELL
Scope: Journal of Ethics & Culture in Nursing and MidwiferyScope: Journal of Agronomy SciencesScope: Training and Learning ResearchesACCEPTS PAPERS IN ENGLISH AS WELL
Scope: ArtScope: Resistance Literature14th Iranian Conference on Biomedical Engineering[10]16th Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering[11]Shahed university has a center for engineering researches and technology located in Enghelab square in Tehran. It includes diverse groups such as biomedical group, communication group and mechanical group.Name (international):
Shahed University, College of MedicineType of Institution: College
Address:Karegare Shomali Nosrat Avenue no 115
City: Tehran
Tel: +98 21 641 8216
Fax: +98 21 641 9752
eMail: slmousavi[at]shahed.ac.ir
Request Admission Information:
Admission Policy:
Contact a Representative:
Apply Now:
Please contact the Admission Office of Shahed University, College of Medicine
online Shahed University, College of Medicine Medical centers, educational and medical Mostafa Khomeini is a hospital in central Tehran. Mostafa Khomeini hospital having 220 beds and located in the Medical School of Shahed University.