Sree Rama Varma High School (Malayalam: ശ്രീ രാമവര്‍മ്മ ഹൈസ്കൂള്‍, officially Sree Rama Varma Govt Model Higher Secondary School, popularly known as SRV High School) is the largest government-owned school in Kochi, Kerala, India. It was founded by the Kochi Royal family as the English Elementary School in 1845.[1] The school was later renamed after King Rama Varma of the founding Kochi Royal family. After the independence of India from British rule, and the reorganization of the states of India in 1956, the school was handed over to the Government of Kerala, which now owns and runs it.In 1845, when it was founded as the English Elementary School, it was located in what is now the campus of the Maharaja's College. It was renamed as Raja's School in 1865, and was upgraded to a college in 1875. In 1834, the school (up to secondary level) was separated from the college and was shifted to the present location renamed as Sree Rama Varma High School.Even though the school caters for grades 1 to 12, the different sections have separate, even though adjoining, campuses as well as separate administration. Thus the school have separate campuses and Headmasters for Lower Primary (grades 1 to 4), Upper Primary (grades 5 to 7), High School (grades 8 to 10), and Higher Secondary (grades 11 and 12) sections.The architecture of the school showcases the British colonial adaptation for Kerala. It is a two storied building built predominantly using lime and wood in an age prior to the advent of concrete and steel reinforcement. The floor is paved entirely with terracotta tiles, while the roofing entirely is with terracotta roofing tiles. Whole of the wood work of the structure is in teak wood.Donated by ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization), during the term of the former chairman Dr. Krishnaswamy Kasturirangan (a former student of the school), the school has a Space Museum, which at the same time showcases ISRO's achievements in space research as well as educates the students in space science. The museum has miniature repicas of ISRO's satellites as well as satellite launch vehicles. The exhibits educates the students on various kinds of satellites and launch techniques namely Polar Satellites, Geosynchronous Satellites and related technologies and applications like remote sensing etc.Coordinates: 9°58′12″N 76°17′10″E﻿ / ﻿9.970°N 76.286°E﻿ / 9.970; 76.286