The State University System of Florida (SUS, or SUSF out-of-state) is a system of twelve public universities in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2013, over 337,000 students were enrolled in Florida's state universities. Together with the Florida College System, which includes Florida's 28 community colleges and state colleges, it is part of Florida's system of public higher education. The system, headquartered in Tallahassee,[1] is overseen by a Chancellor and governed by the Florida Board of Governors.The Florida Board of Governors was created in 2003 to centralize the administration of the State University System of Florida. Previously, Florida's State University System had been governed by the Florida Board of Regents (1965–2001) and the Florida Board of Control (1905–1965).Prior to 1905, Florida's state institutions were governed by a Board of Education and even earlier variations thereof, reaching back to the Florida Constitution of 1838 wherein higher education and normal education was established, based on grants of land from the U.S. Congress. From 1905 to 1965, the few universities in the system were governed by the Florida Board of Control. The Board of Control was replaced by the Florida Board of Regents in 1965, to accommodate the growing university system. The Board of Regents governed until it was disbanded by the Florida Legislature in 2001, and its authority was divided between the Florida Board of Education (which was given some authority over all levels of public education in the state), and appointed university boards of trustees, which operated independently for each separate institution. In 2002, Floridians led by U.S. Senator Bob Graham passed an amendment to the Florida Constitution establishing a new statewide governing body, the Florida Board of Governors.In 2013, the State University System enrolled 337,750 total students. In total 276,214 undergraduates, and 61,716 graduate and professional students.^A In 1851, the Florida legislature voted to establish two seminaries of learning: West Florida Seminary (which became Florida State University) and East Florida Seminary (which became the University of Florida).[16] In 1905, when the Buckman Act reorganized higher education in Florida, the three resulting state institutions all adopted 1905 as their founding date. In 1935 the Florida Board of Control changed the founding dates of UF and Florida State to the years their predecessor Seminaries opened: 1853 and 1857, respectively. In 2000, Florida State declared 1851 to be its founding date, reflecting the date the legislature authorized both seminaries.[17]In-state residents with significant academic merit are eligible to earn a scholarship to one of the member institutions of the state university system through the Bright Futures Scholarship Program.[20] The program is divided into 3 types of grant and is designed to meet needs of three distinct groups in Florida higher education. As of the 2012-2013 academic year, each one of the programs pays a fixed amount award to each specific recipient group. The table below shows the current yearly tuition at each of the member institutions of the state university system for the 2012-2013 academic year. Undergraduate tuition is based on thirty credit hours per year, while graduate tuition is based on twenty-four credit hours per year.[21]During Florida's 2007 Legislative Session, Governor Charlie Crist signed into law SB-1710 which allowed the Florida Board of Governors to charge Tuition Differential of 40% above and beyond the regular in-state undergraduate tuition rates for the University of Florida and Florida State University. In addition the University of South Florida was allowed to raise its rates 30% above and beyond the regular in-state undergraduate tuition charges. This was allowed because these three institutions reached research benchmarks that the other universities in the State University System could not achieve.[22]In 2008, in lieu of receiving increased research funding in excess of $100 million, the Tuition Differential was allowed to now include the University of Central Florida and Florida International University. These two institutions were allowed to raise their in-state undergraduate tuition rate 30% above and beyond the regular tuition rates. This legislation ultimately created a multi-tier system for higher education in Florida's State University System of Florida.[23]In 2009, Governor Charlie Crist and the Florida Legislature passed an even broader tuition differential for all of the institutions within the State University System of Florida. The new provision allows for a 15 percent annually tuition increase for in-state undergraduate tuition until they reach the national average.[24][25] Governor Crist signed off on the legislation on June 1, 2009.[26]The expanded tuition differential is not covered by the Bright Futures Scholarship Program, and the stipulation states that 30 percent of the added revenue must go to need-based student financial aid.[27] This legislation was passed due to severe budget constraints caused by the Florida economy.[28]The State University of System of Florida operates one of the largest academic library systems in the world. It manages more than 18 million items.[29] Each campus maintains its own library catalog and also shares an agreement for library reciprocal borrowing. The agreement was called the Florida Distance Learning Initiative and was signed on February 9, 1999.[30] This system is called UBorrow and is administered by Florida Virtual Campus (FLVC).[31]The physical collections are scattered across each of the SUS campuses. Their collections and stand-alone library buildings are listed in the main article. Due to organizational differences, having more libraries does not directly translate into a higher volume of specific collections of materials.In 2013, there were at least 61,783 state employees working in the university system.[37]Seal of FloridaFlorida A&M UniversityFlorida Atlantic UniversityFlorida Gulf Coast UniversityFlorida International UniversityFlorida State UniversityUniversity of Central FloridaUniversity of FloridaUniversity of North FloridaUniversity of South FloridaUniversity of West Florida