Steve Young (born July 12, 1942) is an American country music singer, songwriter and guitarist, known for his song "Seven Bridges Road" (on Rock Salt & Nails & Seven Bridges Road). He is a pioneer of the country rock, Americana, and alternative country sounds, and also a vital force behind the 'outlaw movement' that gave support to the careers of Waylon Jennings, Hank Williams, Jr. and more. Young was also featured in the 1975 Outlaw Country documentary Heartworn Highways. He is the subject of the song "The All Golden" by Van Dyke Parks.Born in Newnan, Georgia, he grew up in Gadsden, Alabama, Georgia and Texas, moving from place to place as his family searched for work.[1] By the time he had completed high school, Young was playing and writing songs that incorporated influences of folk, blues, country and gospel that he absorbed while travelling throughout the South. In the late 60s he worked with Van Dyke Parks and was member of the psychedelic country band Stone Country.Steve Young wrote (and continues to write) many songs, including outlaw classics such as "Lonesome, On'ry and Mean" (covered by Waylon Jennings) and "Montgomery In the Rain" (covered by Hank Williams, Jr.).His best-known composition is "Seven Bridges Road", which became a major hit for Eagles when they included a cover of it on their live album in 1980. Earlier covers of the song were done by Joan Baez, Tracy Nelson & Mother Earth and Ian Matthews and perhaps the best by Rita Coolidge.In 1984, Young charted the single "It's Not Supposed to Be That Way" on RCA Records. It peaked at No. 84 on Hot Country Songs.[2]The 1996 concert recording by Van Dyke Parks entitled "Moonlighting: Live at the Ash Grove" (released in 1998) was headlined by Steve Young although he doesn't appear on the recordings. Van Dyke Parks stated in the introduction to the song "The All Golden," that it was written about Steve Young. However, this comment does not appear on the recording of the concert.Official site: www.steveyoung.net