The Witch's House (魔女の家, Majo no ie?) is a freeware puzzle-oriented horror game by the Japanese game creator Fummy (ふみー), created in RPG Maker VX. The game was first released in October 2012, for Windows.[1]The game is a survival horror game in which the main goal is to solve all puzzles correctly, revealing the background story and survive to the end to escape the house. The game contains a creepy atmosphere, complex riddles and jump-scares. The game is played from bird's-eye view using an ornate 16-bit-graphic, and controlled via keyboard.[1][2][3]A black, talking cat can be met at various places in the house, serving as a save point, as well as something of a companion. Throughout the vast majority of the game the cat is the only source of conversation, usually talking in a casual, nonchalant manner.[1][2][3]The main character of The Witch's House is Viola, a young girl who wakes up in the middle of a forest, soon discovering that her only way out of the forest is completely blocked off by roses. Her only option is to enter a mysterious house nearby in hopes of finding some means of escaping. Accompanied by a black cat, Viola must try to survive the magical and dangerous house.During her stay in the house, Viola encounters many instances of strange phenomena occurring, a result of the house's shapeshifting nature. She also finds diary entries written by the house's resident, a witch named Ellen, detailing her past. To progress further into the house and hopefully eventually leave the area, Viola must solve various puzzles, unlocking doors in the house. If Viola manages to leave the house, there are two possible endings depending on her actions in the house.The two endings are the same, except one is the true ending, and the other is the "good" fake ending.True ending is achieved when the player collects Ellen's knife. When the legless girl crawls up to Viola, Viola would taunt her and reveal that the player was Ellen, the witch, all along. Ellen had previously made friends with the real Viola, and Viola, feeling bad for Ellen, agreed to switch bodies with Ellen "for one day". However, Ellen enjoys Viola's painless body and loving father and never had the intention on giving it back. In her new body, Viola gains control over the house and attempts to get her body back from Ellen, which fails. Viola's father runs up to Ellen, and thinking that the real Viola is a monster, kills her. Viola's father and Ellen walk out of the forest and Ellen giggles.The "good" ending is where the player does not take Ellen's knife. "Viola" runs away from the legless girl and her father shoots the monster. They walk out of the forest.Fummy later released a prequel novel titled "The Witch's House: The Diary Of Ellen", telling the story of Ellen in full. The novel is five chapters long and is available for purchase on Amazon. [1][2][3]