Jeymes Samuel (born July 27, 1979), also known by his stage name The Bullitts, is a British singer-songwriter, music producer and filmmaker from London. Samuel has a cinematic element to his music and has accompanied most of his releases with a short film. His second studio album, titled They Die By Dawn & Other Short Stories..., was released in July 2013. The album was supported by the singles "Close Your Eyes" (featuring Lucy Liu and Jay Electronica), "Landspeeder", "Supercool" and "World Inside Your Rainbow".Jeymes Samuel initially embarked on a career in film making, having shot his first reels at the age of eight. However he began making music at the age of 17, messing around with house music at the beginning. In the year 2000, Samuel released "When It Rains", his debut single in the form of a 12", under his real name on Giant Step Records. On January 1, 2002, Samuel's debut studio album The Prequel, was released by Little League Productions. Also in 2002, Samuel contributed background vocals on the song "The Proud", from American rapper Talib Kweli's debut album, Quality. In 2004, Samuel wrote "Serenade", for Icelandic singer Emilíana Torrini's 2005 album Fisherman's Woman. Little League Productions would later debut Samuel's new moniker and release his single titled "The Bullitts Theme," in 2007.In 2009, Samuel wrote three songs on fellow British singer Mr Hudson's album Straight No Chaser, namely "Straight No Chaser", "Everything Is Broken" (featuring Kid Cudi) and "Time". In March 2010, Samuel joined Gruff Rhys, Janet Ramus, John Gibbon, Ladonna Harley-Peters, Lucy Randell, Marion Powell, Sharlene Hector, Wayne Hernandez, Wendi Rose and Yvonne Stevens, to form a choir called The Purple, The People, The Plastic Eating People. The choir contributed background vocals on the songs "Some Kind of Nature" (featuring Lou Reed) and "Pirate Jet", from British virtual band Gorillaz's third album, Plastic Beach (2010).In November 2010, named in honor of the Steve McQueen film Bullitt, under the pseudonym The Bullitts, Samuel began uploading "FlixTapes", to his official YouTube channel; a series of videos in which he added new vocals to his favorite movie and television themes. The first episode, titled "Tales of the Unexpected", was released on 14 November 2010.[1] Samuel's lead single from his second studio album, titled "Close Your Eyes", premiered in April 2011, by BBC Radio 1 DJ, Zane Lowe, as "The Hottest Record in the World".[2] The single features narration by American actress Lucy Liu and a verse from American rapper Jay Electronica. It's music video is a re-imagining of the Salvador Dalí and Luis Buñuel film, Un Chien Andalou. In May 2011, the album's second single, titled "Landspeeder", was also aired by Zane Lowe on Radio 1, as "The Hottest Record in the World".[3][4] "Landspeeder", was later included on the original motion picture soundtrack to the British 2011 slasher film, Demons Never Die.[5]Samuel released "Weirdo", in July 2011, a short piece starring actor Jesse Williams.[6] In it, two young lovers in paper bag masks spend a day on the streets of London before robbing a newsagents during a declaration of love. For the song "Run and Hide", by Jay Electronica, Samuel directed a tragic film noir in Paris, based around the actress Elisa Wald-Lasowski.[7] Samuel played at The Big Chill music festival on 6 August 2011, performing on the main stage, where he was joined onstage by Lucy Liu, Jay Electronica and actor Idris Elba.[8]The album's third single, titled "Supercool", was premiered on Lowe's show on 4 October 2011.[9] It's accompanying music video featured Samuel dressed as a homeless individual being harassed by someone filming him against his will; during this he bumps into actress Rosario Dawson, and the pair end up having a dance off on the streets of Soho.[10] In 2011, Samuel co-wrote "Wonderful Life", alongside Arden Altino, Jerry Duplessis, James Poyser and Estelle Swaray, for Swaray's third album All of Me (2012). In late 2012, Samuel worked on the soundtrack to the film The Great Gatsby (2013), alongside Baz Luhrmann, Anton Monsted and Jay-Z.[11][12]In early 2013, Samuel released a short film titled They Die By Dawn, with a star-filled cast that includes Michael K. Williams, Erykah Badu, Isaiah Washington, Jesse Williams and Rosario Dawson. The film, which is a gun-slinging, black cowboy western, was accompanied by the music from Samuel's second album.[13] Samuel's first album under the moniker The Bullitts, is titled They Die By Dawn & Other Short Stories... and was released on 9 July 2013. The album, which is Samuel's second studio release overall, was produced entirely by himself and features guest appearances from Jay Electronica, Lucy Liu, Mos Def, Rosario Dawson, Doxi Jones and Tori Amos.[14]Samuel's older brother Henry Samuel, mononymously known as Seal, is also an accomplished singer-songwriter.[15]