Traders is a business simulation game with a science fiction setting. It was created by André Wüthrich and published by Merit software in 1991. Traders was inspired by M.U.L.E. and released for MS-DOS, Atari ST and Amiga home computers. Up to four players control their character - an alien known as a Plubber. The ultimate goal for each Plubber is to be first in a race against commercial competition, and gain victory. To achieve this, corresponding assets are accumulated. This can be achieved by skillfully growing fields, make tactical approach with any product or small raids on the players.The gameplay is based on the sci-fi Traders game of M.U.L.E.. In contrast to the model, players can always all at the same time and interact. Play consists of several rounds, divided into different sequences. This includes selecting plots of land, producing and selling goods, paying rent, robot duels, lottery and space exploration. Each player is competing with his three other teammates, but to a certain extent, always forced to work together. The planet the game is set on is ruled by a giant alien worm called Fat Mike which of the 4 players requires regular payment of rent in the form of space snails. Rent payment is required every turn and the amount required varies off and on. Players who fail to pay incur penalties.First, each player can choose one of four alien plubbers to play with. This option is used only to distinguish it from other players and has no influence on the game. The remaining characters are controlled by the computer. Also, a variety of options are set, which take effect on the gameplay and difficulty. These options include whether to have lotteries, oil consumption, pirates, robot duels and so on. Each round starts with the balance sheets, in which all assets are listed, as well as the display of a chart that shows the current development of all players.In this segment at the game's beginning the player selects which plot of land his headquarters is located, then a plot of land for development. Thereafter the player can take one plot per round in his possession. On all fields he can build the following development: He can dig a water hole, plant a flower bed or create a rabbit warren. Each field then produces goods depending on development. For example, Water creates roses, the flower leads to the production of perfume, and the rabbits dig for water. These three products in turn are required for the construction and operation of additional production facilities are also integrated in a tricky manner. Another way to use a field is to use it as a missile launch site for space exploration. The missiles will fly automatically to a distant planet in the next sequence and search for the coveted Space snails needed to pay rent to Fat Mike every turn.In this sequence players who have built rocket launch sites can select a planet to send their rockets to search for snails. Planets marked with P may contain pirates and destroy all the player's rockets. Sometimes when arriving on a planet, goods such as space bugs, oil canisters and so on can be found. From time pirates can try to shoot down the player's rockets while in transit.A subsequent, self-running sequence shows each player, as his productive fields are and how many snails could be captured. Decisive for the level of production of the three resources is the terrain it is grown on and the currently prevailing weather. If a player has grown roses for example, there must be enough water in its reservoir in order to produce perfume at all.This is followed by the trading sequence, in which players buy and sell their excess or much needed products to each other or to Fat Mike. Since each product to produce always made by a player other resource needs, one is often forced to pay the asking price or make another product. Each seller has the option to sell its products at a fixed price for FatMike Who can also be traded with a worm, because in each round FatMike duties are due.This is where you go to the robot shopping district to construct and arm a fighting robot to rob and loot your oppoents silos and lay silo defenses. The robot battle always takes place before the trading sequence, which means that the required resources or worm can be captured and thus not be purchased. Each player receives a particular Fat Mike budget for the robot battle, depending on the amount of the assets provided. Thus, each player can buy parts for his own battle robot, as well as ammunition and defense equipment. After that everyone has a chance to fight on the battlefield. Defense equipment can also be built to prevent other robots from capturing the silo and can then move the robot out to defend or attack. The robot is controlled by the player directly, and can try at anytime during the phase to plunder storage. Each player can be robbed only once per combat round. The robot battle can be completely disabled in the options menu, so that the object of the game only be reached by peaceful means.After trade, you must pay a quota of Space Snails you're explorers found to Fat Mike. The stock of snails of each player is displayed. Fat Mike displays with a stick how big is his demand for this delicacy in the current round. THis demand can shift at random during the phase. If one is unable to pay the amount claimed, he gets angry and destroys buildings of the respective player.If this Happens to a player twice in a row, he will have a field repossessed. If all of the players should be unable to pay in a round, each player loses one occupied area.Sometimes before the rent sequence, Fat Mike can provide aid to players in the form of goods such as oil, snails, water ETC. The players are on an island and must race to collect randomly placed goods.ALso every three turns there is a snail contest. The player with the most snails is the winner. Winning the snail contest can mean being awarded an extra plot of land or cash. Players who failed to pay rent to Fat Mike cannot participate as what little snails they had if any are confiscated.Then each player can play the lottery in the shopping district, in which he gives a four-digit color combination of red or blue. Lottery prizes increase each turn especially if there are no winners. Players can also buy oil for moving around during plot selection and construction phase, gems which can be bought and re-sold later or rockets to be used at the launch site for the next space exploration phase.After this the round ends. Players then are presented a chart with their current balance and assets and a graph showing their progress. Current rankings are also shown.The game has reached its end when a player reaches his or her assets quota at the beginning of a round or if the time limit is reached with no winner. There is a final placement and a short sequence as in the Plubber enjoys his well earned retirement.Sometimes after a round Disasters happen randomly and can destroy the attachments or the complete change of scenery. This can either be beneficial or disastrous for the player. This is especially serious for the production of missiles, since these may not be placed on unused fields.In the shopping district phase, the player can also be trade with sapphires and like stocks, their price can go up at any time. They can be bought with space bugs some of which are obtained at the beginning of the game, through clever action or by the chance discovery of a missile can stocks be increased to beetles. Gems can also be sold for cash.Each "Plubber" uses oil as it moves to the countryside. He has no more, he can not move and can not occupy such new fields. Oil can be purchased in the shopping district, but the demand was high and supply scarce, thus leading to shortages and over again. Oil can also be found by a missile in the search for snails