Wu Chun (Chinese: 吳尊; pinyin: Wú Zūn) was born on 10 October 1979,[1] birth name Goh Kiat Chun, is a Brunei-born-Chinese Taiwanese actor, singer, former model and gym instructor.Chun was a member of Taiwanese Mandopop vocal quartet boy band Fahrenheit from its debut in 2005 to June 2011. He was the last and oldest member to join the boy band and was the bass vocalist of the group. HIM International Music, the group's record label, announced in an official statement on 22 June 2011 that Chun left Fahrenheit to concentrate on his acting career and also to spend more time with his family.[2]He speaks fluent Mandarin, Hokkien, Brunei Malay, English and limited Japanese & Cantonese.Chun also starred in many Taiwanese drama such as Hanazakarino Kimitachihe, Romantic Princess, Hot Shot and Tokyo Juliet.Chun studied at the Chung Hwa Middle School in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei. He graduated from the RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia, with a bachelor's degree in business administration. He also played for Brunei's national basketball team.[3]Prior to joining Fahrenheit, Chun worked as a model for Yilin in Taiwan and Diva Models in Singapore. He manages a family-owned gym club[4] in Brunei. As of August 2007, Chun is appointed chairman of Palm Garden Hotel and its neighbouring multi-story Fitness Zone centre in Brunei. For his effort and success, Chun was awarded the Young Entrepreneur of the Year award in Brunei during the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards in August.On 5 October 2010, it was announced that Chun will play "Night Tenjo" in a live-action adaptation of Japanese manga series Absolute Boyfriend, with Korean actress Ku Hye-sun as "Riiko Izawa".[5] However on 3 May 2011, Jiro Wang was reported to have replaced Chun as male lead after he pulled out of the project.[6]On October 2013, Wu Chun publicly announced he has a wife and 3 year old daughter[7] and he also revealed that his wife was pregnant and was soon to give birth to a son.[8] He had previously kept his marriage a secret because his wife was not ready to face the publicity and wanted to lead a quiet life.[9]Wu Chun lived in Brunei and is a Bruneian Citizen.As a member of Fahrenheit Wu Chun has released 4 studio Mandarin albums and 3 Japanese singles. He was the last to join Fahrenheit. His publicized temperature is that of cool autumn, at 59 degrees Fahrenheit.